# Methodology Draft 1

For our project, we’re interested in seeing how the relationship between gender and action is portrayed in Grimm’s fairytales and if this changes over time. To do this we looked at both well-known and lesser known tales with two versions of each tale from different years. The stories  we chose were: Little Red Riding Hood, Rumplestiltskin, The Robber Bridegroom, Frau Holle, Rapunzel, Hansel and Grettle, Sleeping Beauty, Snow White, The Singing Bone, Girl Without Hands, Hans-my-hedgehog, and Frog King. We used a collection compiled by a previous Pitt professor, D. L. Ashliman. This collection contains translations from the original German to English with versions from different parts  of the 1800s. 
Each tale’s version was marked up according to our schema. This schema consisted of three elements: descriptor, action, and empty. Descriptor was further broken down into the attributes of type and gender. Type had the values of positive, neutral, and negative. We used type and its values as a way to see how genders were portrayed not only by their actions but by their description. This was done so that we could compare the language used to describe female characters versus male characters to see what this told us about how the Grimm’s fairytales portrayed gender. Additionally, we looked at the actions of these characters, ascribing the attributes: agency, gender, and willingness. Agency had a value of either active or passive and willingness had values eager, neutral, and hesitant. These action attributes and their values are the meat of our argument. They allow us to see how gender in the tales were actually allowed to act. Our empty element was for a happy ending, which all of our stories had. **Why did we want happy ending?** 

