<article xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <h2>Iron Heinrich (1857)</h2>
   
   <p>In olden times, when wishing still did some good, there lived a king whose daughters
      were all
      <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">beautiful</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span>, but the youngest was
      <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">so beautiful</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> that the sun
      itself, who, indeed, has seen so much, marveled every time it shone upon her face.
      In the
      vicinity of the king's castle there was a large, dark forest, and in this forest,
      beneath an
      old linden tree, there was a well. In the heat of the day the princess would go out
      into the
      forest and <span class="hoverable female_action">sit</span><span class="hover">passive, female, eager</span> on the
      edge of the cool well. To pass the time she would take a golden ball, <span class="hoverable female_action">throw</span><span class="hover">active, female, neutral</span> it into the air,
      and then <span class="hoverable female_action">catch</span><span class="hover">active, female, neutral</span> it. It
      was her favorite plaything.</p>
   
   <p>Now one day it happened that the princess's golden ball did not fall into her hands,
      that she
      held up high, but instead it fell to the ground and rolled right into the water. The
      princess <span class="hoverable female_action">followed</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span> it
      with her eyes, but the ball disappeared, and the well was so deep that she could not
      see its
      bottom. Then she began to <span class="hoverable female_action">cry</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>. She <span class="hoverable female_action">cried</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span> louder and louder, and she could not console herself.</p>
   
   <p>As she was thus <span class="hoverable female_action">lamenting</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>, someone called out to her, "What is the matter with you, princess?
      Your crying would turn a stone to pity."</p>
   
   <p>She <span class="hoverable female_action">looked</span><span class="hover">active, female, neutral</span> around to
      see where the voice was coming from and saw a frog, who had stuck his thick, ugly
      head out
      of the water. "Oh, it's you, old water-splasher," she said. "I am crying because my
      golden
      ball has fallen into the well."</p>
   
   <p>"Be still and stop crying," answered the frog. I can <span class="hoverable male_action">help</span><span class="hover">active, male, hesitant</span> you, but what will you give me if I bring back your
      plaything?"</p>
   
   <p>"Whatever you want, dear frog," she <span class="hoverable female_action">said</span><span class="hover">active, female, neutral</span>, "my clothes, my pearls and precious stones, and
      even the golden crown that I am wearing."</p>
   
   <p>The frog <span class="hoverable male_action">answered</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span>, "I do
      not want your clothes, your pearls and precious stones, nor your golden crown, but
      if you
      will <span class="hoverable male_action">love</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> me and <span class="hoverable male_action">accept</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> me as a companion and
      playmate, and let me <span class="hoverable male_action">sit</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span>
      next to you at your table and <span class="hoverable male_action">eat</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> from your golden plate and <span class="hoverable male_action">drink</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> from your cup and <span class="hoverable male_action">sleep</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span> in your bed, if you will <span class="hoverable male_action">promise</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> this to me, then
      I'll <span class="hoverable male_action">dive</span><span class="hover">active, male, hesitant</span> down and
      bring your golden ball back to you."</p>
   
   <p>"Oh, yes," she said, "I <span class="hoverable female_action">promise</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> all of that to you if you will just bring the ball back to me." But
      she <span class="hoverable female_action">thought</span><span class="hover">passive, female, hesitant</span>, "What
      is this <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">stupid</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> frog trying to say? He
      just <span class="hoverable male_action">sits</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span> here in the
      water with his own kind and <span class="hoverable male_action">croaks</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span>. He cannot be a companion to a human."</p>
   
   <p>As soon as the frog <span class="hoverable male_action">heard</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span> her say "yes" he <span class="hoverable male_action">stuck</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> his head under and <span class="hoverable male_action">dove</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> to the bottom. He <span class="hoverable male_action">paddled</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> back up a short
      time later with the golden ball in his mouth and <span class="hoverable male_action">threw</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> it onto the grass. The princess was <span class="hoverable female_action">filled</span><span class="hover">passive, female, eager</span> with joy when she
      saw her beautiful plaything once again, picked it up, and ran off.</p>
   
   <p>"Wait, wait," <span class="hoverable male_action">called</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> the
      frog, "take me along. I cannot run as fast as you." But what did it help him, that
      he
      <span class="hoverable male_action">croaked</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> out after
      her as loudly as he could? She paid no attention to him, but instead <span class="hoverable female_action">hurried</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> home and soon <span class="hoverable female_action">forgot</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span> the poor frog,
      who had to return again to his well.</p>
   
   <p>The next day the princess was <span class="hoverable female_action">sitting</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span> at the table with the king and all the people of the court, and was
      <span class="hoverable female_action">eating</span><span class="hover">active, female, neutral</span> from her
      golden plate when something came creeping up the marble steps: plip, plop, plip, plop.
      As
      soon as it reached the top, there came a <span class="hoverable male_action">knock</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> at the door, and a voice called out, "Princess,
      <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">youngest</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span>, open the door for
      me!"</p>
   
   <p>She <span class="hoverable female_action">ran</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> to see who was
      outside. She <span class="hoverable female_action">opened</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> the
      door, and the frog was <span class="hoverable male_action">sitting</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span> there. <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">Frightened</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>, she <span class="hoverable female_action">slammed</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> the door shut and <span class="hoverable female_action">returned</span><span class="hover">passive, female, eager</span> to the table. The king saw that
      her heart was pounding and asked, "My child, why are you <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">afraid</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>? Is there a giant outside the door who wants to get
      you?"</p>
   
   <p>"Oh, no," she answered. "it is a <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">disgusting</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> frog."</p>
   
   <p>"What does the frog want from you?"</p>
   
   <p>"Oh, father dear, yesterday when I was sitting near the well in the forest and <span class="hoverable female_action">playing</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>, my golden ball
      fell into the water. And because I was <span class="hoverable female_action">crying </span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>so much, the frog brought it back, and because he
      insisted, I <span class="hoverable female_action">promised</span><span class="hover">active, female, hesitant</span>
      him that he could be my companion, but I didn't think that he could leave his water.
      But now
      he is just outside the door and wants to come in."</p>
   
   <p>Just then there came a second <span class="hoverable male_action">knock</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> at the door, and a voice <span class="hoverable male_action">called</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> out: <span class="lg">
         <span class="l"><span class="hoverable female_descriptor">Youngest</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> daughter of the
            king,</span>
         <span class="l">Open up the door for me,</span>
         <span class="l">Don't you know what yesterday,</span>
         <span class="l">You said to me down by the well?</span>
         <span class="l"><span class="hoverable female_descriptor">Youngest</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> daughter of the
            king,</span>
         <span class="l">Open up the door for me.</span>
         </span>
      </p>
   
   <p>The king said, "What you have promised, you must keep. Go and let the frog in."</p>
   
   <p>She went and <span class="hoverable female_action">opened</span><span class="hover">active, female, hesistant</span>
      the door, and the frog hopped in, then <span class="hoverable male_action">followed</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> her up to her chair. He <span class="hoverable male_action">sat</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span> there and <span class="hoverable male_action">called</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span> out, "Lift me up next to you."</p>
   
   <p>She hesitated, until finally the king <span class="hoverable male_action">commanded</span><span class="hover">active, male, hesitant</span> her to do it. When the frog was seated next to
      her he said, "Now <span class="hoverable female_action">push</span><span class="hover">passive, female, hesitant</span> your golden plate closer, so we can eat together."</p>
   
   <p>She did it, but one could see that she did not want to. The frog <span class="hoverable male_action">enjoyed</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span> his meal, but for her every <span class="hoverable female_action">bite</span><span class="hover">active, female, hesitant</span> stuck in her
      throat. Finally he said, "I have eaten all I want and am tired. Now carry me to your
      room
      and make your bed so that we can go to sleep."</p>
   
   <p>The princess began to <span class="hoverable female_action">cry</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span> and was afraid of the cold frog and did not dare to even touch him, and
      yet he was supposed to sleep in her beautiful, clean bed.</p>
   
   <p>The king <span class="hoverable male_action">became angry</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span>
      and said, "You should not despise someone who has helped you in time of need."</p>
   
   <p>She <span class="hoverable female_action">picked him up</span><span class="hover">active, female, hesitant</span>
      with two fingers, <span class="hoverable female_action">carried</span><span class="hover">active, female, hesitant</span> him upstairs, and <span class="hoverable female_action">set</span><span class="hover">passive, female, hesitant</span> him in a corner. As she was <span class="hoverable female_action">lying in bed</span><span class="hover">passive, female, hesitant</span>, he came <span class="hoverable male_action">creeping</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> up to her and
      said, "I am tired, and I want to sleep as well as you do. Pick me up or I'll tell
      your
      father."</p>
   
   <p>With that she became bitterly angry and <span class="hoverable female_action">threw him against the wall</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> with all her might. "Now you
      will have your peace, you <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">disgusting</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span>
      frog!"</p>
   
   <p>But when he fell down, he was not a frog, but a prince with <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">beautiful</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span>
      <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">friendly</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span> eyes. And he was now,
      according to her father's will, her dear companion and husband. He told her how he
      had been
      enchanted by a wicked witch, and that she alone could have <span class="hoverable female_action">rescued him</span><span class="hover">active, female, neutral</span> from the well, and that
      tomorrow they would go together to his kingdom. Then they fell asleep.</p>
   
   <p>The next morning, just as the sun was waking them, a carriage pulled up, drawn by
      eight
      horses. They had white ostrich feathers on their heads and were outfitted with chains
      of
      gold. At the rear stood the young king's servant, faithful Heinrich. Faithful Heinrich
      had
      been so <span class="hoverable male_action">saddened by his
         master's transformation</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span> into a frog that he had had to place three iron bands
      around his heart to keep it from bursting in grief and sorrow. The carriage was to
      take the
      king back to his kingdom. <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">Faithful</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span>
      Heinrich <span class="hoverable male_action">lifted</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> them both
      inside and took his place at the rear. He was filled with joy over the redemption.
      After
      they had gone a short distance, the prince heard a crack from behind, as though something
      had broken.</p>
   
   <p>He turned around and said, "Heinrich, the carriage is breaking apart."</p>
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l">No, my lord, the carriage it's not,</span>
      <span class="l">But one of the bands surrounding my heart,</span>
      <span class="l">That suffered such great pain,</span>
      <span class="l">When you were sitting in the well,</span>
      <span class="l">When you were a frog.</span>
      </span>
   
   <p>Once again, and then once again the prince heard a cracking sound and thought that
      the
      carriage was breaking apart, but it was the bands springing from <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">faithful</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span> Heinrich's heart because his master was now redeemed
      and happy.</p>
   </article>