<article xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <h2>Iron Heinrich (1812)</h2>
   
   <p>Once upon a time there was a princess who went out into a forest and <span class="hoverable female_action">sat</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span> next to a cool well.</p>
   
   <p>She took great pleasure in <span class="hoverable female_action">throwing a golden ball</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> into the air and <span class="hoverable female_action">catching</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> it, but once it went too high. She
      <span class="hoverable female_action">held out her</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> hand
      with her fingers curved to catch it, but it fell to the ground and rolled and rolled
      right
      into the water.</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_descriptor">Horrified</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>, the princess <span class="hoverable female_action">followed it with her
         eyes</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>, but the well was so deep that she could not see its bottom.</p>
   
   <p>Then she began to <span class="hoverable female_action">cry</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>
      <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">bitterly</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>, I'd give anything, if
      only I could get my ball back: my clothes, my precious stones, my pearls, anything
      in the
      world.</p>
   
   <p>At this a frog <span class="hoverable female_action">stuck his
         head</span><span class="hover">active, female, neutral</span> out of the water and said, "Princess, why are you <span class="hoverable female_action">crying</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span> so <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">bitterly</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>?"</p>
   
   <p>"Oh," she said, "you <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">ugly</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> frog, how
      can you help me? My golden ball has fallen into the well."</p>
   
   <p>The frog said, "I do not want your pearls, your precious stones, and your clothes,
      but if
      you'll accept me as a companion and let me sit next to you and eat from your plate
      and sleep
      in your bed, and if you'll love and cherish me, then I'll <span class="hoverable male_action">bring your ball</span><span class="hover">active, male, hesitant</span> back to you."</p>
   
   <p>The princess thought, "What is this <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">stupid</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> frog trying to say? After all, he does have to stay here in the
      water. But still, maybe he can get my ball. I'll go ahead and say yes," and she <span class="hoverable female_action">said aloud</span><span class="hover">active, female, hesitant</span>, "Yes, for
      all I care. Just bring me back my golden ball, and I'll promise everything."</p>
   
   <p>The frog <span class="hoverable male_action">stuck his head under the
         water</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> and <span class="hoverable male_action">dove</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> to the bottom.</p>
   
   <p>He returned a short time later with the golden ball in his mouth and <span class="hoverable male_action">threw it onto the land</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>.</p>
   
   <p>When the princess saw her ball once again, she <span class="hoverable female_action">rushed toward it</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>, <span class="hoverable female_action">picked it up</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>, and was so <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">happy</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> to have it in her hand again, that she could think of
      nothing else than to <span class="hoverable female_action">run
         home</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> with it.</p>
   
   <p>The frog <span class="hoverable male_action">called after her</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>,
      "Wait, princess, take me with you like you promised," but she paid no attention to
      him.</p>
   
   <p>The next day the princess was <span class="hoverable female_action">sitting at her table</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span> when she heard something coming up the marble steps:
      plip, plop. Then there came a <span class="hoverable male_action">knock</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> at the door, and a voice called out, "Princess, <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">youngest</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span>, open the door for me!"</p>
   
   <p>She <span class="hoverable female_action">ran</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> and <span class="hoverable female_action">opened the door</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>. It was the
      frog, whom she had put completely out of her mind. <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">Frightened</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>, she <span class="hoverable female_action">slammed</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> the door shut and <span class="hoverable female_action">returned</span><span class="hover">passive, female, eager</span> to the table. The king saw that
      her heart was pounding and asked, "Why are you afraid?"</p>
   
   <p>"There is a <span class="hoverable positive_descriptor">disgusting</span><span class="hover">negative, positive</span> frog out
      there," she said, "who got my golden ball out of the water. I <span class="hoverable female_action">promised</span><span class="hover">passive, female, hesitant</span> him that he could be my
      companion, but I didn't think that he could leave his water, but now he is just outside
      the
      door and wants to come in."</p>
   
   <p>Just then there came a second <span class="hoverable male_action">knock</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> at the door, and a voice <span class="hoverable male_action">called</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> out: <span class="lg">
         <span class="l"><span class="hoverable female_descriptor">Youngest</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> daughter of the
            king,</span>
         <span class="l">Open up the door for me,</span>
         <span class="l">Don't you know what yesterday,</span>
         <span class="l">You said to me down by the well?</span>
         <span class="l"><span class="hoverable female_descriptor">Youngest</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> daughter of the
            king,</span>
         <span class="l">Open up the door for me.</span>
         </span>
      </p>
   
   <p>The king said, "What you have promised, you must keep. Go and let the frog in."</p>
   
   <p>She went and <span class="hoverable female_action">opened</span><span class="hover">active, female, hesistant</span>
      the door, and the frog hopped in, then <span class="hoverable male_action">followed</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> her up to her chair. After she had <span class="hoverable female_action">sat down again</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>, he
      <span class="hoverable male_action">called out</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>, "Lift me
      up next to you."</p>
   
   <p>The princess did not want to, but the king <span class="hoverable male_action">commanded</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> her to do it. When the frog was seated next to
      her he said, "Now <span class="hoverable female_action">push</span><span class="hover">passive, female, hesitant</span> your golden plate closer. I want to eat from it."</p>
   
   <p>She had to do this as well. When he had <span class="hoverable male_action">eaten</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span> all he wanted, he said, "Now I am tired and want to
      sleep. Take me to your room, make your bed, so that we can lie in it together."</p>
   
   <p>The princess was <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">horrified</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> when she
      heard that. She was <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">afraid</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> of the
      cold frog and did not dare to even touch him, and yet he was supposed to lie next
      to her in
      her bed; she began to <span class="hoverable female_action">cry</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span> and didn't want to at all.</p>
   
   <p>The king <span class="hoverable male_action">became angry</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span>
      and <span class="hoverable male_action">commanded her</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> to do
      what she had promised.</p>
   
   <p>There was no helping it; she had to do what her father wanted, but in her heart she
      was
      <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">bitterly angry</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>. She <span class="hoverable female_action">picked up the frog</span><span class="hover">active, female, hesitant</span> with
      two fingers, <span class="hoverable female_action">carried
         him</span><span class="hover">active, female, hesitant</span> to her room, and <span class="hoverable female_action">climbed into bed</span><span class="hover">active, female, hesitant</span>, but instead of laying him next to
      herself, she <span class="hoverable female_action">threw him</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>
      bang! against the wall. "Now you will leave me in peace, you <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">disgusting</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> frog!"</p>
   
   <p>But when the frog came down onto the bed, he was a <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">handsome</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span>
      <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">young</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span> prince, and he was her
      <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">dear</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span> companion, and she held him
      in <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">esteem</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span> as she had promised, and
      they fell asleep together with pleasure.</p>
   
   <p>The next morning the prince's <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">faithful</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span>
      Heinrich arrived in a splendid carriage drawn by eight horses, decorated with feathers
      and
      glistening with gold. He had been so <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">saddened</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> by the prince's transformation that he had had to place three
      iron bands around his heart to keep it from bursting in sorrow. The prince <span class="hoverable male_action">climbed</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> into the
      carriage with the princess. His faithful servant <span class="hoverable male_action">stood</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span> at the rear to drive them to his
      kingdom. After they had gone a short distance, the prince heard a crack from behind,
      as
      though something had broken.</p>
   
   <p>He turned around and said, "Heinrich, the carriage is breaking apart."</p>
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l">No, my lord, the carriage it's not,</span>
      <span class="l">But one of the bands surrounding my heart,</span>
      <span class="l">That suffered such great pain,</span>
      <span class="l">When you were sitting in the well,</span>
      <span class="l">When you were a frog.</span>
      </span>
   
   <p>Once again, and then once again the prince heard a cracking sound and thought that
      the
      carriage was breaking apart, but it was the bands springing from <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">faithful</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span> Heinrich's heart because his master was now redeemed
      and happy.</p>
   </article>