<article xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <h2>Little Red Cap (1857)</h2>
   
   <p>Once upon a time there was a <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">sweet</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span>
      <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">little</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> girl. Everyone who saw
      her liked her, but most of all her grandmother, who did not know what to give the
      child
      next. Once she <span class="hoverable female_action">gave her a
         little cap made of red velvet</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>. Because it suited her so well, and she
      wanted to wear it all the time, she <span class="hoverable female_action">came to be known as Little Red Cap</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>.</p>
   
   
   <p>One day her mother said to her, "Come Little Red Cap. Here is a piece of cake and
      a
      bottle of wine. Take them to your grandmother. She is <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">sick</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> and <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">weak</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>, and they will do her well. Mind your manners and give her my
      greetings. Behave yourself on the way, and do not leave the path, or you might fall
      down
      and break the glass, and then there will be nothing for your grandmother. And when
      you
      enter her parlor, don't forget to say 'Good morning,' and don't peer into all the
      corners first."</p>
   
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">"I'll do everything just
         right," said Little Red Cap, shaking her mother's hand</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>.</p>
   
   
   <p>The grandmother lived out in the woods, a half hour from the village. When Little
      Red Cap
      entered the woods a wolf came up to her. <span class="hoverable female_action">She did not know what a <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">wicked</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> animal he was, and was not afraid of
         him</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>.</p>
   
   
   <p>"Good day to you, Little Red Cap."</p>
   
   
   <p>"Thank you, wolf."</p>
   
   
   <p>"Where are you going so early, Little Red Cap?"</p>
   
   
   <p>"To grandmother's."</p>
   
   
   <p>"And what are you carrying under your apron?"</p>
   
   
   <p>"Grandmother is <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">sick</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> and
      <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">weak</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>, and I <span class="hoverable female_action">am taking her some cake and
         wine</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>. We baked yesterday, and they should be good for her and give her
      strength."</p>
   
   
   <p>"Little Red Cap, just where does your grandmother live?"</p>
   
   
   <p>"Her house is good quarter hour from here in the woods, under the three large oak
      trees.
      There's a hedge of hazel bushes there. You must know the place," said Little Red
      Cap.</p>
   
   
   <p>The wolf thought to himself, "Now that <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">sweet</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> young thing is a tasty bite for me. She will taste even better
      than the old woman. You must <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">be
         sly</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span>, and you can catch them both."</p>
   
   
   <p>He <span class="hoverable male_action">walked along a little while
         with Little Red Cap, then he said, "Little Red Cap, just look at the beautiful
         flowers that are all around us. Why don't you go and take a look? And I don't
         believe you can hear how beautifully the birds are singing. You are walking along
         as
         though you were on your way to school. It is very beautiful in the
         woods."</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   
   <p>Little Red Cap <span class="hoverable female_action">opened her
         eyes and when she saw the sunbeams dancing to and fro through the trees and how the
         ground was covered with beautiful flowers, she thought, "If a take a fresh bouquet
         to grandmother, she will be very pleased. Anyway, it is still early, and I'll be
         home on time." And she ran off the path into the woods looking for flowers. Each
         time she picked one she thought that she could see an even more beautiful one a
         little way off, and she ran after it, going further and further into the
         woods</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>. But the wolf <span class="hoverable male_action">ran straight to the grandmother's house and knocked on the
         door</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>.</p>
   
   
   <p>"Who's there?"</p>
   
   
   <p>"Little Red Cap. I'm <span class="hoverable male_action">bringing
         you some cake and wine</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>. Open the door."</p>
   
   
   <p>"Just press the latch," called out the grandmother. "I'm <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">too weak</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> to get up."</p>
   
   
   <p>The wolf <span class="hoverable male_action">pressed the latch, and
         the door opened. He stepped inside, went straight to the grandmother's bed, and ate
         her up. Then he put on her clothes, put her cap on his head, got into her bed, and
         pulled the curtains shut</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>.</p>
   
   
   <p>Little Red Cap <span class="hoverable female_action">had run
         after the flowers. After she had gathered so many that she could not carry any more,
         she remembered her grandmother, and then continued on her way to her house</span><span class="hover">active, female, neutral</span>.
      She found, to her surprise, that the door was open. She <span class="hoverable female_action">walked into the parlor, and everything looked
         so strange that she thought, "Oh, my God, why am I so afraid? I usually like it at
         grandmother's."</span><span class="hover">active, female, hesitant</span></p>
   
   
   <p>She <span class="hoverable female_action">called out, "Good
         morning!"</span><span class="hover">active, female, neutral</span> but <span class="hoverable female_action">received no answer</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>.</p>
   
   
   <p>Then <span class="hoverable female_action">she went to the bed
         and pulled back the curtains</span><span class="hover">active, female, hesitant</span>. Grandmother <span class="hoverable female_action">was lying there with her cap pulled down over
         her face and <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">looking very
            strange</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>.</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span></p>
   
   
   <p>"Oh, grandmother, <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">what big ears you
         have</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span>!"</p>
   
   
   <p>"All the better to hear you with."</p>
   
   
   <p>"Oh, grandmother, <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">what big eyes you
         have</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span>!"</p>
   
   
   <p>"All the better to see you with."</p>
   
   
   <p>"Oh, grandmother, <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">what big hands you
         have</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span>!"</p>
   
   
   <p>"All the better to grab you with!"</p>
   
   
   <p>"Oh, grandmother, <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">what a horribly big mouth you
         have</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span>!"</p>
   
   
   <p>"All the better to eat you with!"</p>
   
   
   <p>The wolf had scarcely finished speaking when he <span class="hoverable male_action">jumped from the bed with a single leap and ate up <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">poor</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> Little Red Cap. As soon as the
         wolf had satisfied his desires, he climbed back into bed, fell asleep, and began to
         snore very loudly</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>.</p>
   
   
   <p>A huntsman was just passing by. He thought, "The <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman is <span class="hoverable female_action">snoring so loudly</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>. You <span class="hoverable male_action">had better see if something is wrong with
         her</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span>."</p>
   
   
   <p>He <span class="hoverable male_action">stepped into the parlor, and
         when he approached the bed, he saw the wolf lying there. "So here I find you, you
         <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span>
         <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">sinner</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span>," he said.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> "I
      <span class="hoverable male_action">have been hunting for you
         a long time</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>."</p>
   
   
   <p>He <span class="hoverable male_action">was about to aim his rifle
         when it occurred to him that the wolf might have eaten the grandmother, and that she
         still might be rescued. So instead of shooting, he took a pair of scissors and began
         to cut open the wolf's belly</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>. After a few cuts he saw the red cap shining
      through., and after a few more cuts the girl <span class="hoverable female_action">jumped out, crying, "Oh, I was so frightened! It was so dark
         inside the wolf's body!"</span><span class="hover">passive, female, eager</span></p>
   
   
   <p>And then the grandmother <span class="hoverable female_action">came out as well, alive but hardly able to breathe</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>. Then Little Red Cap
      <span class="hoverable female_action">fetched some large
         stones. She filled the wolf's body with them</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>, and <span class="hoverable male_action">when he woke up and tried to run away, the
         stones were so heavy that he immediately fell down dead</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span>.</p>
   
   
   <p>The three of them were happy. The huntsman <span class="hoverable male_action">skinned the wolf and went home with the pelt</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>. The
      grandmother <span class="hoverable female_action">ate the cake and
         drank the wine that Little Red Cap had brought</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>. And Little Red Cap thought,
      "<span class="hoverable female_action">As long as I live, I
         will never leave the path and run off into the woods by myself if mother tells me
         not to</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>."</p>
   
   
   <p>They also tell how Little Red Cap <span class="hoverable female_action">was taking some baked things to her grandmother another time,
         when another wolf <span class="hoverable male_action">spoke to
            her and wanted her to leave the path</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></span><span class="hover">passive, female, eager</span>. But Little Red Cap
      <span class="hoverable female_action">took care and went
         straight to grandmother's</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>. She told her that she had seen the wolf, and
      that he had wished her a good day, but had stared at her in a wicked manner. "If we
      hadn't been on a public road, he <span class="hoverable female_action">would have eaten me up</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>," she said.</p>
   
   
   <p>"Come," said the grandmother. "<span class="hoverable female_action">Let's lock the door, so he can't get in</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>."</p>
   
   
   <p>Soon afterward the wolf <span class="hoverable male_action">knocked
         on the door and called out, "Open up, grandmother. It's Little Red Cap, and I'm
         bringing you some baked things."</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   
   <p>They <span class="hoverable female_action">remained silent, and did
         not open the door</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>. Gray-Head <span class="hoverable male_action">crept around the house several times, and finally jumped onto
         the roof. He wanted to wait until Little Red Cap went home that evening, then follow
         her and eat her up in the darkness</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>. But the grandmother saw what he was up
      to. There was a large stone trough in front of the house.</p>
   
   
   <p>"Fetch a bucket, Little Red Cap," she said to the child. "Yesterday I cooked some
      sausage. Carry the water that I boiled them with to the trough." Little Red Cap <span class="hoverable female_action">carried water until the large,
         large trough was clear full</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>. The smell of sausage arose into the wolf's
      nose. He <span class="hoverable male_action">sniffed and looked
         down, stretching his neck so long that he could no longer hold himself, and he began
         to slide.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> He <span class="hoverable male_action">slid off the roof, fell into the trough, and drowned</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span>. And Little Red Cap
      <span class="hoverable female_action">returned home
         happily</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>, and no one harmed her.</p>
   
   </article>