<article xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <h2>Rapunzel (1857)</h2>
   
   <p>Once upon a time there was a man and a woman who had long, but to no avail, wished
      for a
      child. Finally the woman came to believe that the good Lord would fulfill her wish.
      Through the small rear window of these people's house they could see into a splendid
      garden that was filled with the most beautiful flowers and herbs. The garden was
      surrounded by a high wall, and no one dared enter, because it belonged to a <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">sorceress who possessed great power and was feared
         by everyone.</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span></p>
   
   <p>One day the woman was standing at this window, and <span class="hoverable female_action">she saw a bed planted with the most beautiful
         rapunzel. It looked so fresh and green that she longed for some. It was her greatest
         desire to eat some of the rapunzel. This desire increased with every day, and not
         knowing how to get any, she became miserably ill.</span><span class="hover">passive, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>Her husband was <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">frightened</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span>, and
      asked her, "What ails you, dear wife?"</p>
   
   <p>"Oh," she answered, "if I do not get some rapunzel from the garden behind our house,
      I
      shall die."</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_action">The man, who loved her dearly,
         thought, "Before you let your wife die, you must get her some of the rapunzel,
         whatever the cost."</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>So just as it was getting dark he <span class="hoverable male_action">climbed over the high wall into the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">sorceress's</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> garden, hastily dug up a handful of
         rapunzel, and took it to his wife.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> She <span class="hoverable female_action">immediately made a salad from it, which she
         devoured eagerly.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> It tasted so very good to her that by the next day her
      desire for more had grown threefold.<span class="hoverable female_action">If she were to have any peace, the man would have to climb
         into the garden once again.</span><span class="hover">passive, female, hesitant</span>
      <span class="hoverable male_action">Thus he set forth once
         again</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> just as it was getting dark. But no sooner than he had climbed over
      the wall than, to his horror, he saw the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">sorceress</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> standing there before him.</p>
   
   <p>"How can you dare," she asked with an <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">angry
         look,</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> "to climb into my garden and <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">like a thief</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> to steal my rapunzel? You will pay for
      this."</p>
   
   <p>"Oh," he answered, "Let mercy overrule justice. I came to do this out of necessity.
      My
      wife saw your rapunzel from our window, and such a longing came over her, that she
      would
      die, if she did not get some to eat."</p>
   
   <p>The <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">sorceress's</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> anger abated
      somewhat, and she said, "If things are as you say, I will allow you to take as much
      rapunzel as you want. &gt;But under one condition: You must give me the child that your
      wife will bring to the world. It will do well, and I will take care of it like a
      mother."</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_action">In his fear the man agreed
         to everything.</span><span class="hover">passive, male, hesitant</span></p>
   
   <p>When the woman gave birth, the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">sorceress</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> appeared, named the little girl Rapunzel, and took her away.
      Rapunzel became the most <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">beautiful</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> child under the sun. When she was twelve years old, the
      <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">sorceress</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> locked her in a
      tower that stood in a forest and that had neither a door nor a stairway, but only
      a tiny
      little window at the very top.</p>
   
   <p>When the sorceress wanted to enter, she stood below and called out:</p>
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l">Rapunzel, Rapunzel,</span>
      <span class="l">Let down your hair to me.</span>
      </span>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_descriptor">Rapunzel had splendid long hair, as fine as
         spun gold.</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> When she heard the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">sorceress's</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> voice, she untied her braids, wound them
      around a window hook, let her hair fall twenty yards to the ground, and the sorceress
      climbed up it.</p>
   
   <p>A few years later it happened that a king's son was riding through the forest. As
      he
      approached the tower he heard a song so <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">beautiful</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> that he stopped to listen. It was Rapunzel, who was passing
      the time by singing with her <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">sweet</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> voice. The prince <span class="hoverable male_action">wanted to climb up to her, and looked for a door in the tower,
         but none was to be found.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_action">He rode home, but the song had
         so touched his heart that he returned to the forest every day and listened to
         it.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> One time, as he was thus standing behind a tree, he saw the sorceress
      approach, and heard her say:</p>
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l">Rapunzel, Rapunzel,</span>
      <span class="l">Let down your hair.</span>
      </span>
   
   <p>Then Rapunzel let down her strands of hair, and the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">sorceress</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> climbed up them to her.</p>
   
   <p>"If that is the ladder into the tower,<span class="hoverable male_action">then sometime I will try my luck."</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>And the next day, just as it was beginning to get dark,<span class="hoverable male_action">he went to the tower and called out:</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l">Rapunzel, Rapunzel,</span>
      <span class="l">Let down your hair.</span>
      </span>
   
   <p>The hair fell down, and <span class="hoverable male_action">the
         prince climbed up.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>At first Rapunzel was <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">terribly
         frightened</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> when a man such as she had never seen before came in to her.
      However, the <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">prince began talking to her in a
         very friendly manner,</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span> telling her that <span class="hoverable male_action">his heart had been so touched by her singing
         that he could have no peace until he had seen her in person.</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span> Then Rapunzel
      lost her fear, and when he asked her if she would take him as her husband, she thought,
      <span class="hoverable female_action">He would rather have
         me than would old Frau Gothel." She said yes and placed her hand into
         his.</span><span class="hover">active, female, neutral</span></p>
   
   <p>She said, <span class="hoverable female_action">I would go with
         you gladly, but I do not know how to get down. Every time that you come, bring a
         strand of silk, from which I will weave a ladder. When it is finished I will climb
         down, and you can take me away on your horse."</span><span class="hover">passive, female, eager</span> They arranged that he would
      come to her every evening, for the old woman came by day.</p>
   
   <p>The <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">sorceress</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> did not notice
      what was happening until one day Rapunzel said to her, "Frau Gothel, tell me why it
      is
      that you are more difficult to pull up than is the young prince, who will be arriving
      any moment now?"</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_descriptor">You godless child," cried the sorceress.
         "What am I hearing from you? I thought I had removed you from the whole world, but
         you have deceived me nonetheless."</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span></p>
   
   <p>In her anger she grabbed Rapunzel's <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">beautiful</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> hair, wrapped it a few times around her left hand, grasped a
      pair of scissors with her right hand, and snip snap, cut it off. And she was so
      unmerciful that she took Rapunzel into a wilderness where she suffered greatly.</p>
   
   <p>On the evening of the same day that she sent Rapunzel away, the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">sorceress</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>
      <span class="hoverable female_action">tied the cut-off hair to the
         hook at the top of the tower,</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> and when the prince called out:</p>
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l">Rapunzel, Rapunzel,</span>
      <span class="l">Let down your hair.</span>
      </span>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">she let down the
         hair.</span><span class="hover">passive, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_descriptor">The prince climbed up,</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span> but above,
      instead of his <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">beloved</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span>
      Rapunzel, he found the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">sorceress</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>, who peered at him with <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">poisonous</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> and <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">evil</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> looks.</p>
   
   <p>"Aha!" <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">she cried scornfully.</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>
      "You have come for your Mistress Darling, but that <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">beautiful bird</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> is no longer sitting in her nest, nor is
      she singing any more. The cat got her, and will scratch your eyes out as well. You
      have
      lost Rapunzel. You will never see her again."</p>
   
   <p>The prince was overcome with grief, and <span class="hoverable male_action">in his despair he threw himself from the tower.</span><span class="hover">active, male, hesitant</span> He
      <span class="hoverable male_action">escaped with his life,
         but the thorns into which he fell poked out his eyes. Blind, he wandered about in
         the forest, eating nothing but grass and roots, and doing nothing but weeping and
         wailing over the loss of his <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">beloved
            wife.</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span></span><span class="hover">passive, male, hesitant</span> Thus he <span class="hoverable male_action">wandered about miserably for some years, finally happening
         into the wilderness where Rapunzel <span class="hoverable female_action">lived miserably with the twins that she had given birth
            to.</span><span class="hover">passive, female, hesitant</span></span><span class="hover">passive, male, hesitant</span></p>
   
   <p>He heard a voice and thought it was familiar. He advanced toward it, and as he
      approached, <span class="hoverable female_action">Rapunzel
         recognized him, and crying, threw her arms around his neck.</span><span class="hover">passive, female, eager</span>
      <span class="hoverable female_action">Two of her tears fell into
         his eyes, and they became clear once again, and he could see as well as
         before.</span><span class="hover">passive, female, eager</span> He led her into his kingdom, where he was received with joy, and
      for a long time they lived happily and satisfied.</p>
   
   </article>