<article xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <h2>Rapunzel (1812)</h2>
   
   <p>Once upon a time there was a man and a woman who had long wished for a child but had
      never received one.</p>
   
   <p>Finally, however, <span class="hoverable mixed_action">the woman
         came to be with child.</span><span class="hover">passive, mixed, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>Through the small rear window of these people's house they could see into a <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">fairy's</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> garden that was filled with
      flowers and herbs of all kinds.</p>
   
   <p>No one dared enter this garden.</p>
   
   <p>One day the woman was standing at this window, and she saw the most beautiful rapunzel
      in a bed.</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">She longed for some, but
         not knowing how to get any, she became miserably ill.</span><span class="hover">passive, female, hesitant</span></p>
   
   <p>Her husband was <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">frightened</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span>, and
      asked her why she was doing so poorly.</p>
   
   <p>"Oh, if I do not get some rapunzel from the garden behind our house, I shall surely
      die,"
      she said.</p>
   
   <p>The man, who loved her dearly, <span class="hoverable male_action">decided to get her some, whatever the cost.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_action">One evening he climbed over the
         high wall, hastily dug up a handful of rapunzel, and took it to his
         wife.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>She immediately made a salad from it, which she devoured <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">greedily.</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span></p>
   
   <p>It tasted so very good to her that by the next day her desire for more had grown
      threefold.</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_action">The man saw that there would be
         no peace, so once again he climbed into the garden.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>To his horror, the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">fairy</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> was
      standing there.</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">She scolded him
         fiercely</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> for daring to enter and steal from her garden.</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_action">He excused himself as best he
         could with his wife's pregnancy, and how it would be dangerous to deny her
         anything.</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>Finally the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">fairy</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> spoke, "I will
      accept your excuse and even allow you to take as much rapunzel as you want, if you
      will
      <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">give me the child that your wife is now
         carrying."</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span></p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_action">In his fear the man agreed
         to everything.</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span></p>
   
   <p>When the woman gave birth, the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">fairy</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> appeared, named the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">little</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> girl Rapunzel, and <span class="hoverable female_action">took her away.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>This Rapunzel became the most <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">beautiful
         child</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> under the sun, but when she was twelve years old, the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">fairy</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span>
      <span class="hoverable female_action">locked her in a high tower
         that had neither a door nor a stairway, but only a tiny little window at the very
         top.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>When the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">fairy</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> wanted to enter,
      <span class="hoverable female_action">she stood below and
         called out:</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l">Rapunzel, Rapunzel!</span>
      <span class="l">Let down your hair to me.</span>
      </span>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_descriptor">Rapunzel had splendid hair, as fine as spun
         gold.</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span></p>
   
   <p>When the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">fairy</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> called out,
      <span class="hoverable female_action">she untied it, wound
         it around a window hook, let it fall twenty yards to the ground,</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span> and the
      <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">fairy</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span>
      <span class="hoverable female_action">climbed up it.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>One day a <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">young</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> prince <span class="hoverable male_action">came through the forest where the
         tower stood.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>He saw the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">beautiful</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> Rapunzel
      standing at her window, heard her sing with her <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">sweet voice,</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> and <span class="hoverable male_action">fell in love with her.</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>Because there was no door in the tower and no ladder was tall enough to reach her,
      <span class="hoverable male_action">He came to the forest
         every day,</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> until once he saw the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">fairy,</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> who said:</p>
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l">Rapunzel, Rapunzel!</span>
      <span class="l">Let down your hair.</span>
      </span>
   
   <p>Then he knew which ladder would get him into the tower.</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_action">He remembered the words that
         he would have to speak, and the next day, as soon as it was dark, he went to the
         tower and called upward:</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span></p>
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l">Rapunzel, Rapunzel!</span>
      <span class="l">Let down your hair!</span>
      </span>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">She let her hair
         fall.</span><span class="hover">passive, female, eager</span>
      <span class="hoverable male_action">He tied himself to it and was
         pulled up.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>At first Rapunzel was <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">frightened,</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> but soon she came to like the young king so well that
      <span class="hoverable female_action">she arranged for him to
         come every day and be pulled up.</span><span class="hover">passive, female, eager</span> Thus they lived in joy and pleasure for a
      long time.</p>
   
   <p>The <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">fairy</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> did not discover what
      was happening until one day Rapunzel said to her, "Frau Gothel, tell me why it is
      that
      my clothes are all too tight. They no longer fit me."</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_descriptor">"You godless child,"</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> said the
      <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">fairy.</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> "What am I hearing
      from you?" She immediately saw how she had been deceived and was <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">terribly angry.</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span></p>
   
   <p>She took Rapunzel's <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">beautiful</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span>
      hair, <span class="hoverable female_action">wrapped it a few times
         around her left hand, grasped a pair of scissors with her right hand, and snip snip,
         cut it off.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>Then <span class="hoverable female_action">she sent Rapunzel into a
         wilderness</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> where <span class="hoverable female_action">she suffered greatly and where, after a time, she gave birth
         to twins, a boy and a girl.</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span></p>
   
   <p>On the evening of the same day that she sent Rapunzel away, the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">fairy</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span>
      <span class="hoverable female_action">tied the cut-off hair to the
         hook at the top of the tower,</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> and when the prince called out:</p>
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l">Rapunzel, Rapunzel!</span>
      <span class="l">Let down your hair!</span>
      <span class="l">she let down the hair.</span>
      </span>
   
   <p>The prince was startled to find the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">fairy</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> instead of his <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">beloved</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> Rapunzel.</p>
   
   <p>"Do you know what, <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">evil</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> one?"
      cried the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">angry fairy</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>. "You
      have lost Rapunzel forever."</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_action">The prince, in his despair,
         threw himself from the tower.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>He escaped with his life, but he lost his eyesight in the fall.</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_action">Sorrowfully he wandered
         about in the forest weeping and, eating nothing but grass and roots.</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span></p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_action">Some years later he happened
         into the wilderness where Rapunzel lived miserably with her children.</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span></p>
   
   <p>He thought that her voice was familiar.</p>
   
   <p>She recognized him instantly as well and <span class="hoverable female_action">threw her arms around his neck.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">Two of her tears fell into
         his eyes, and they became clear once again, and he could see as well as
         before.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   </article>