<article>
    
    <p>A wild boar was wreaking havoc throughout the country. No one dared venture into the
        forest where it ran about. With its tusks it ripped to pieces anyone who was bold
        enough
        to pursue it and attempt to kill it. Then the king <span class="hoverable male_action">proclaimed that anyone who could kill the boar would receive his
            daughter for a wife</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>.</p>
    
    <p>There were three brothers in the kingdom. The <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">oldest</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> was <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">sly</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span>
        and <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">clever</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span>; the second was of
        <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">ordinary intelligence</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span>; but the
        third and <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">youngest</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> was <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">innocent</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span> and <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">slow witted</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span>. They <span class="hoverable male_action">wanted to win the princess, so they set forth to seek out the
            wild boar and kill it</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>.</p>
    
    
    <p>The <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">two oldest</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> ones went together,
        while the <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">youngest</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> one went by
        himself. When he <span class="hoverable male_action">entered the
            woods an old man approached him. He was holding a black lance in his hand, and said
            to him, "Take this lance and fearlessly attack the boar with it, and you will kill
            it." And that is what happened. He struck the boar with the lance, and it fell dead
            to the earth. Then he lifted it onto his shoulder, and cheerfully set off toward
            home</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span>.</p>
    
    
    <p>On the way he <span class="hoverable male_action">came to a house
        where his brothers were making merry and drinking wine</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>. When they saw him
        with the boar on his back, they called to him, "Come in and have a drink with us.
        You
        must be tired." The <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">innocent
            simpleton</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span>, not thinking about any danger, <span class="hoverable male_action">went inside and told them how he had killed the
                boar with the black lance, and rejoiced in his good fortune</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span>. That evening
        they returned home together. The <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">two
            oldest</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> ones <span class="hoverable male_action">plotted to kill their brother</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>. They let him <span class="hoverable male_action">walk ahead of them</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span>, and when they came
        to a bridge just outside the city, they <span class="hoverable male_action">attacked him, striking him dead. They buried him beneath the
            bridge</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>. Then the <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">oldest</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> one <span class="hoverable male_action">took the boar, carried it to the king, claimed that he had killed it</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>, and
        <span class="hoverable female_action">received the princess
            for a wife</span><span class="hover">passive, female, eager</span>.</p>
    
    
    <p>Many years passed, but it was not to remain hidden. One day a <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">shepherd</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span>
        <span class="hoverable male_action"> was crossing the bridge
            when he saw a little bone beneath him in the sand</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span>. It was so pure and
        snow-white that he wanted it to make a mouthpiece from, so he <span class="hoverable male_action">climbed down and picked it up. Afterward he made a
            mouthpiece from it for his horn</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>, and when he put it to his lips to play,
        the little bone began to sing by itself:</p>
    
    
    <lg>
        
        <l>Oh, dear shepherd</l>
        
        <l>You are blowing on my bone.</l>
        
        <l>My brothers <span class="hoverable male_action">struck me
            dead</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>,</l>
        
        <l>And <span class="hoverable male_action">buried me beneath the
            bridge</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>,</l>
        
        <l>To get the wild boar</l>
        
        <l>For the daughter of the king.</l>
    </lg>
    
    <p>The shepherd <span class="hoverable male_action">took the horn to
        the king</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>, and once again it sang the same words. After hearing this, the
        king <span class="hoverable male_action">had his people dig under
            the bridge, and they soon uncovered the skeleton</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>. The two <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">wicked</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> brothers <span class="hoverable male_action">confessed their crime</span><span class="hover">active, male, hesitant</span> and <span class="hoverable male_action">were thrown into the
                water</span><span class="hover">passive, male, hesitant</span>. The <span class="hoverable male_action">murdered</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span> brother's bones <span class="hoverable male_action">were laid to rest in a beautiful grave in the
                    churchyard</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span>.</p>
</article>