<article xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <h2>Frau Holle (1857)</h2>
   
   <p>A widow had two daughters, the one was <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">beautiful</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> and <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">industrious</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span>, the other <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">ugly</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> and <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">lazy</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>.
      She greatly <span class="hoverable female_action">favored</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>
      the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">ugly</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>, <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">lazy</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> girl, because she was her own
      daughter. And the other one had to do all the work, and be the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">Cinderella</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> of the house.</p>
   
   <p>Every day the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">poor</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> girl had to
      <span class="hoverable female_action">sit</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span> by a well,
      next to the highway, and <span class="hoverable female_action">spin
         so much</span><span class="hover">active, female, hesitant</span> that her fingers bled. Now it happened that one day the reel was
      completely bloody, so she <span class="hoverable female_action">dipped</span><span class="hover">active, female, neutral</span> it in the well, to wash it off, but it <span class="hoverable female_action">dropped</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span> out of her hand and fell in. She
      <span class="hoverable female_action">cried</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>, <span class="hoverable female_action">ran to her stepmother</span><span class="hover">active, female, neutral</span>,
      and told her of the mishap. She <span class="hoverable female_action">scolded her</span><span class="hover">active, female, neutral</span> so sharply, and was so <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">merciless</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> that she said, "Since you have
      let the reel fall in, you must fetch it out again."</p>
   
   <p>Then the girl went back to the well, and did not know what to do. <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">Terrified</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>, she <span class="hoverable female_action">jumped into the well</span><span class="hover">active, female, hesitant</span> to get the reel. She
      lost her senses. And when she <span class="hoverable female_action">awoke</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span> and came to herself again, she was in a beautiful meadow
      where the sun was shining, and there were many thousands of flowers. She walked across
      this
      meadow and came to an oven full of bread. The bread called out, "Oh, take me out.
      Take me
      out, or I'll burn. I've been thoroughly baked for a long time." So she stepped up
      to it, and
      with a baker's peel <span class="hoverable female_action">took everything out</span><span class="hover">active, female, neutral</span>, one loaf after the other.</p>
   
   <p>After that she walked further and came to a tree laden with apples. "Shake me. Shake
      me. We
      apples are all ripe." cried the tree. So she <span class="hoverable female_action">shook the tree</span><span class="hover">active, female, neutral</span> until the apples fell as though
      it were raining apples. When none were left in the tree, she <span class="hoverable female_action">gathered them</span><span class="hover">active, female, neutral</span> into a pile, and
      then continued on her way.</p>
   
   <p>Finally she came to a small house. An old woman was peering out from inside. She had
      very
      <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">large teeth</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>, which <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">frightened</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> the girl, and she wanted to run away. But the old woman called
      out to her, "Don't be afraid, dear child. Stay here with me, and if you do my housework
      in
      an orderly fashion, it will go well with you. Only you must take care to make my bed
      well
      and shake it diligently until the feathers fly, then it will snow in the world. I
      am Frau
      Holle."</p>
   
   <p>Because the old woman spoke so <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">kindly</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> to her, the girl took heart, agreed, and started in her
      service. The girl took care of everything to Frau Holle's satisfaction and always
      <span class="hoverable female_action">shook her
         featherbed vigorously</span><span class="hover">active, female, neutral</span> until the feathers flew about like snowflakes. Therefore she had a
      good life with her: no angry words, and boiled or roast meat every day.</p>
   
   <p>Now after she had been with Frau Holle for a time, she became <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">sad</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>. At first she did not know
      what was the matter with her, but at last she determined that it was <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">homesickness</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>. Even
      though she was many thousands of times better off here than at home, still she had
      a
      yearning to return. Finally she said to the old woman, "I have such a longing for
      home, and
      even though I am very well off here, I cannot stay longer. I must go up again to my
      own
      people."</p>
   
   <p>Frau Holle said, "I am pleased that you long for your home again, and because you
      have served
      me so <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">faithfully</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span>, I will take you back myself." With that she took her by the hand and <span class="hoverable female_action">led
         her</span><span class="hover">active, female, neutral</span> to a large gate.</p>
   
   <p>The gate was opened, and while the girl was standing under it, an immense rain of
      gold fell,
      and all the gold stuck to her, so that she was completely covered with it. "This is
      yours
      because you have been so <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">industrious</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span>," said Frau Holle, and at the same time she gave her
      back the reel which had fallen into the well.</p>
   
   <p>With that the gate was closed and the girl found herself above on earth, not far from
      her
      mother's house. And as she entered the yard the rooster, sitting on the well, cried:</p>
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l">Cock-a-doodle-doo,</span>
      <span class="l">Our golden girl is here anew.</span>
      </span>
   
   <p>Then she went inside to her mother, and as she arrived all covered with gold, she
      was well
      received, both by her mother and her sister. The girl told all that had happened to
      her, and
      when the mother heard how she had come to the great wealth, she wanted to <span class="hoverable female_action">achieve</span><span class="hover">active, female, neutral</span> the same
      fortune for the other, the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">ugly</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> and <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">lazy</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> daughter. She made her go and <span class="hoverable female_action">sit</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span> by the well and
      spin. And to make her reel bloody, the lazy girl pricked her fingers and shoved her
      hand
      into a thorn bush. Then she threw the reel into the well, and <span class="hoverable female_action">jumped in herself</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>.</p>
   
   <p>Like the other girl, she too came to the beautiful meadow and walked along the same
      path.
      When she came to the oven, the bread cried again, "Oh, take me out. Take me out, or
      else
      I'll burn. I've been thoroughly baked for a long time."</p>
   
   <p>But the lazy girl answered, "As if I would want to get all dirty," and <span class="hoverable female_action">walked away</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>.</p>
   
   <p>Soon she came to the apple tree. It cried out, "Oh, shake me. Shake me. We apples
      are all
      ripe."</p>
   
   <p>But she answered, "Oh yes, one could fall on my head," and with that <span class="hoverable female_action">she walked on</span><span class="hover">passive, female, eager</span>.</p>
   
   <p>When she came to Frau Holle's house, she was not afraid, because she had already heard
      about
      her <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">large teeth</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>, and she immediately began to work for her. On the first day she forced
      herself, was <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">industrious</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span>, and obeyed Frau Holle, when she said something to her, because she
      was thinking about all the gold that she would give her. But on the second day she
      already
      began to be <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">lazy</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>, on the third day even more so, and then she didn't even want to get up in
      the morning. She did not make the bed for Frau Holle, the way she was supposed to,
      and she
      did not shake it until the feathers flew. Frau Holle soon became tired of this and
      dismissed
      her of her duties. This was just what the lazy girl wanted, for she thought that she
      would
      now get the rain of gold.</p>
   
   <p>Frau Holle <span class="hoverable female_action">led her</span><span class="hover">active, female, neutral</span> too to the gate. She stood beneath it, but instead of gold, a large kettle
      full of pitch spilled over her. "That is the reward for your services," said Frau
      Holle, and
      closed the gate.</p>
   
   <p>Then the lazy girl went home, entirely covered with pitch. As soon as the rooster
      on the well
      saw her, he cried out:</p>
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l">Cock-a-doodle-doo,</span>
      <span class="l">Our dirty girl is here anew.</span>
      </span>
   
   <p>And the pitch stuck fast to her, and did not come off as long as she lived.</p>
   </article>