<article xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <h2>Girl without Hands</h2>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_descriptor">A miller, who was so poor that he had nothing more
         than his mill and a large apple tree which stood behind it,</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span>
      <span class="hoverable male_action">went into the forest to gather
         wood</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span>. There he was approached by an <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">old
         man</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span>, who said, "Why do you torment yourself so? I will make you rich if you will
      sign over to me that which is standing behind your mill. I will come and claim it
      in three years."
      <span class="hoverable male_action">The miller thought, "That is my apple
         tree," agreed, and signed it over to the man.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   
   <p>When he came home, his <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">wife</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> said to him,
      "Miller, where did all the wealth come from that suddenly has filled every chest and
      cupboard in
      our house?"</p>
   
   
   <p>"I received it from an old man in the forest by signing over to him that which is
      standing
      behind the mill."</p>
   
   
   <p>"Husband!" said <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">the woman, terrified</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>.
      "This is going to be very bad. The old man was the devil, and he had our daughter
      in mind, who was
      just then standing behind the mill sweeping the yard."</p>
   
   
   <p>Now <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">the miller's daughter was very beautiful and
         pious.</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> Three years later when the devil came, early in the morning, and wanted to
      take her, <span class="hoverable female_action">she had drawn a circle
         around herself with chalk and had washed herself clean.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   
   <p>Therefore the devil could not approach her, and <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">angrily</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> he said to the miller, "Keep wash water away from her, so she cannot wash
      herself any more, and I can have power over her."</p>
   
   
   <p>The miller was <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">frightened</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> and <span class="hoverable male_action">did what he was told</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span>. The next day
      the devil returned, but she had <span class="hoverable female_action">wept</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span> into her hands and <span class="hoverable female_action">washed</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span> herself with her tears, and was entirely clean.</p>
   
   
   <p>Because the devil still could not approach her, he was very <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">angry</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span>, and <span class="hoverable male_action">ordered</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> the miller, "Chop off her hands, so I can get to her."</p>
   
   
   <p>The miller was <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">horrified</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> and answered,
      "How could I chop off my dear child's hands? No, I will not do it."</p>
   
   
   <p>"Then do you know what? I will take you, if you don't do it!"</p>
   
   
   <p>That <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">frightened</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> the miller terribly, and
      driven by fear he <span class="hoverable male_action">promised</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> to
      do what the devil had ordered. He went to his daughter and said, "My child, the devil
      will take me
      if I don't chop off both your hands, and I have promised him that I will do it. I
      beg for your
      forgiveness."</p>
   
   
   <p>"Father," she said, "do with me what you will," <span class="hoverable female_action">stretched forth her hands, and let him chop them off</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>.</p>
   
   
   <p>The devil came a third time, but she had <span class="hoverable female_action">wept</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span> so long onto her stumps, that she was still entirely clean,
      and the devil had lost all power over her.</p>
   
   
   <p>The miller, because he had become so wealthy through her, promised to take the best
      care of her
      for the rest of her life, but she did not want to remain there.</p>
   
   
   <p>"I must leave here," she said. "Compassionate people will give me enough to keep me
      alive."</p>
   
   
   <p>She had the chopped-off hands tied to her back, and she <span class="hoverable female_action">set forth</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> with the rising sun, walking the entire day until evening,
      when she came to the king's garden. There was a gap in the garden hedge. <span class="hoverable female_action">She went inside, found a fruit tree, shook it with her body
         until the apples fell to the ground, bent over and picked them up with her teeth,
         and ate
         them.</span><span class="hover">active, female, neutral</span> Thus she lived for two days, but on the third day the garden watchmen saw her,
      captured her, and threw her into prison.</p>
   
   
   <p>The next morning she was brought before the king and sentenced to be banished from
      the land, but
      the prince said, "Wait, wouldn't it be better to let her tend the chickens in the
      courtyard?" So
      she stayed there for a time and tended the chickens. The prince saw her often and
      grew very fond
      of her.</p>
   
   
   <p>Meanwhile the time came when he was to get married. Messengers were sent everywhere
      in the world
      to find him a beautiful bride. "You needn't look so far and wide," he said. "I know
      where one is
      very nearby."</p>
   
   
   <p>The <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> king <span class="hoverable male_action">pondered</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span> this back and forth, but he could not think
      of a single maiden in his kingdom who was both beautiful and rich, "You surely don't
      want to marry
      the one who tends the chickens in the courtyard?" But his son <span class="hoverable male_action">declared</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> that he would marry no one else, so finally
      the king had to agree. Soon afterward he <span class="hoverable male_action">died</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span>, and the prince succeeded him as king and lived happily for a
      time with his wife.</p>
   
   
   <p>Once the king had to go away to war, and during his absence his wife <span class="hoverable female_action">gave birth</span><span class="hover">active, female, neutral</span> to a <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">beautiful</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span> child. She sent a messenger with a letter telling her
      husband the joyful news. On the way the messenger stopped to rest by a brook and fell
      asleep. The
      devil, who was still trying to harm her, came to him and exchanged the letter with
      one that stated
      that the queen had given birth to a <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">changeling</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span>. The king was very saddened to read this, but he wrote that the queen
      and the child should be well cared for until his return. The messenger started back
      with this
      letter. When he stopped to rest at the same spot and fell asleep, the devil again
      appeared, this
      time <span class="hoverable male_action">exchanging</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> the king's
      letter with one that ordered the queen and the child to be driven from the kingdom.
      This had to be
      done, however much the people all <span class="hoverable mixed_action">wept</span><span class="hover">passive, mixed, neutral</span>
      with sorrow.</p>
   
   
   <p>"I did not come here to become queen," she said. "I have no luck, and I demand none.
      Just tie my
      child and my hands onto my back, and I will set forth into the world."</p>
   
   
   <p>That evening she came to a place in a thick forest where a <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">good</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span> old man was sitting by a spring. "Be so kindhearted as to hold my
      child to my breast until I have nursed him," she said.</p>
   
   
   <p>The man did that, after which he said to her, "Go to that thick tree over there and
      wrap your
      maimed arms around it three times!" And when she had done this, her hands <span class="hoverable female_action">grew</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span> back on. Then he showed her a house. "You can
      live there," he said, "but do not go outside, and do not open the door for anyone
      unless he asks
      three times to come in, for God's sake."</p>
   
   
   <p>Meanwhile the king returned home and discovered how he had been deceived. Accompanied
      by a
      single servant he <span class="hoverable female_action">set forth</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>,
      and after a long journey he finally happened, one night, into the same forest where
      the queen was
      living, but he did not know that she was so close to him. "There is a little light
      from a house
      back there," said his servant. "We can rest there."</p>
   
   
   <p>"No," said the king. "I do not want to rest so long, but rather to continue searching
      for my
      wife. I cannot rest until I find her."</p>
   
   
   <p>But the servant <span class="hoverable male_action">begged</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> so
      much and <span class="hoverable male_action">complained</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> so about
      his weariness that out of compassion, the king <span class="hoverable male_action">gave in</span><span class="hover">passive, male, hesitant</span>. When they came to the house, the moon was shining, and
      they saw the queen standing by the window. "That must be our queen; she looks just
      like her," said
      the servant, "but I see now that she is not the one, for this one has hands."</p>
   
   
   <p>The servant asked her for shelter, but she <span class="hoverable female_action">refused</span><span class="hover">active, female, neutral</span>, because he had not asked "for God's sake." He was about
      to go on and seek another place for their night's lodging when the king himself came
      up and said,
      "Let me in, for God's sake!"</p>
   
   
   <p>"I cannot let you in until you have asked me three time, for God's sake," she replied.
      And after
      the king had asked two more times, she opened the door. His <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">little</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> son ran to him and led him in to his mother. The king
      recognized her immediately as his <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">beloved</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span>
      wife. The next morning they all journeyed together back to their
      kingdom, and as soon as they had left the house, it disappeared behind them.</p>
   
   </article>