<article xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <h2>Hansel and Gretel</h2>
   
   <p>Next to a great forest there lived a <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">poor
         woodcutter</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> with his wife and his two children. The boy's name was
      Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel. He had but little to eat, and once, when a
      great
      famine came to the land, <span class="hoverable male_action">he
         could no longer provide even their daily bread.</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_action">One evening as he was lying in
         bed worrying about his problems,</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span> he sighed and said to his wife, "What is
      to become of us? How can we feed our children when we have nothing for ourselves?"</p>
   
   <p>"Man, do you know what?" answered the woman."Early tomorrow morning we will take the
      two
      children out into the thickest part of the woods, make a fire for them, and give each
      of
      them a little piece of bread, then leave them by themselves and go off to our work.
      They
      will not find their way back home, and we will be rid of them."</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_action">"No, woman," said the man. "I
         will not do that. How could I bring myself to abandon my own children alone in the
         woods? Wild animals would soon come and tear them to pieces."</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>"Oh, <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">you fool,"</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> she said, "then
      all four of us will starve. All you can do is to plane the boards for our coffins."
      <span class="hoverable female_action">And she gave him no
         peace until he agreed.</span><span class="hover">passive, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>"But I do feel sorry for the poor children," said the man.</p>
   
   <p>The two children had not been able to fall asleep because of their hunger, and they
      <span class="hoverable mixed_action">heard what the
         stepmother had said to the father.</span><span class="hover">passive, mixed, neutral</span></p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">Gretel cried bitter
         tears</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span> and said to Hansel, "It is over with us!"</p>
   
   <p>"Be quiet, Gretel," said Hansel, "and don't worry. I know what to do."</p>
   
   <p>And as soon as the adults had fallen asleep, <span class="hoverable male_action">he got up, pulled on his jacket, opened the lower door, and
         crept outside.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> The moon was shining brightly, and the white pebbles in
      front of the house were glistening like silver coins. Hansel bent over and filled
      his
      jacket pockets with them, as many as would fit.</p>
   
   <p>Then he went back into the house and said, "Don't worry, Gretel. Sleep well. God will
      not
      forsake us." Then he went back to bed.</p>
   
   <p>At daybreak, even before sunrise, the woman came and woke the two children. <span class="hoverable mixed_descriptor">Get up, you lazybones.</span><span class="hover">negative, mixed</span> We are going into
      the woods to fetch wood." <span class="hoverable female_action">Then she gave each one a little piece of bread, saying, "Here is something for
         midday. Don't eat it any sooner, for you'll not get any more."</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>Gretel put the bread under her apron, because Hansel's pockets were full of stones.
      Then
      all together they set forth into the woods. After they had walked a little way, Hansel
      <span class="hoverable male_action">began stopping again and
         again and looking back toward the house.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>The father said, "Hansel, why are you stopping and looking back? Pay attention now,
      and
      don't forget your legs."</p>
   
   <p>"Oh, father," said Hansel, "I am looking at my white cat that is sitting on the roof
      and
      wants to say good-bye to me."</p>
   
   <p>The woman said, <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">You fool,</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> that
      isn't your cat. That's the morning sun shining on the chimney."</p>
   
   <p>However, <span class="hoverable male_action"> Hansel had not been
         looking at his cat but instead had been dropping the shiny pebbles from his pocket
         onto the path.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>When they arrived in the middle of the woods, the father said, "You children gather
      some
      wood, and I will make a fire so you won't freeze."</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable mixed_action">Hansel and Gretel gathered
         together some twigs,</span><span class="hover">active, mixed, eager</span> a pile as high as a small mountain</p>
   
   <p>The twigs were set afire, and when the flames were burning well, the woman said, "Lie
      down by the fire and rest. We will go into the woods to cut wood. When we are finished,
      we will come back and get you."</p>
   
   <p>Hansel and Gretel sat by the fire. When midday came each one ate his little piece
      of
      bread. Because they could hear the blows of an ax, they thought that the father was
      nearby. However, it was not an ax. It was a branch that he had tied to a dead tree
      and
      that the wind was beating back and forth. After they had sat there a long time, their
      eyes grew weary and closed, and they fell sound sleep.</p>
   
   <p>When they finally awoke, it was dark at night. Gretel began to cry and said, "How
      will we
      get out of woods?"</p>
   
   <p>Hansel comforted her, "Wait a little until the moon comes up, and then we'll find
      the
      way."</p>
   
   <p>After the full moon had come up, <span class="hoverable male_action">Hansel took his little sister by the hand.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> They <span class="hoverable mixed_action">followed the pebbles that
         glistened there like newly minted coins, showing them the way. They walked
         throughout the entire night, and as morning was breaking, they arrived at the
         father's house.</span><span class="hover">active, mixed, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>They knocked on the door, and when the woman opened it and saw that it was Hansel
      and
      Gretel, she said, You <span class="hoverable mixed_descriptor">wicked</span><span class="hover">negative, mixed</span>
      children, why did you sleep so long in the woods? We thought that you did not want
      to
      come back."</p>
   
   <p>But the father was <span class="hoverable male_descriptor"> overjoyed</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span> when
      he saw his children once more, for <span class="hoverable male_action">he had not wanted to leave them alone.</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>Not long afterward there was once again great need everywhere, and one evening the
      children heard the mother say to the father, "We have again eaten up everything. We
      have
      only a half loaf of bread, and then the song will be over. <span class="hoverable female_action">We must get rid of the children. We will take
         them deeper into the woods, so they will not find their way out. Otherwise there
         will be no help for us."</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_action">The man was very
         disheartened, and he thought, "It would be better to share the last bit with the
         children."</span><span class="hover">passive, male, hesitant</span></p>
   
   <p>But the woman would not listen to him, scolded him, and criticized him. He who says
      A
      must also say B, and because he had given in the first time, he had to do so the second
      time as well.</p>
   
   <p>The children were still awake and had overheard the conversation. When the adults
      were
      asleep, <span class="hoverable male_action">Hansel got up again
         and wanted to gather pebbles as he had done before,</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> but the <span class="hoverable female_action">woman had locked the
         door,</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> and <span class="hoverable male_action">Hansel
         could not get out. But he comforted his little sister and said, "Don't cry, Gretel.
         Sleep well. God will help us."</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">Early the next morning the
         woman came and got the children from their beds. They received their little pieces
         of bread, even less than the last time.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> On the way to the woods, Hansel
      crumbled his piece in his pocket, then often stood still, and threw crumbs onto the
      ground.</p>
   
   <p>"Hansel, why are you always stopping and looking around?" said his father. "Keep walking
      straight ahead."</p>
   
   <p>"I can see my pigeon sitting on the roof. It wants to say good-bye to me."</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_descriptor">"Fool,"</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> said the woman, "that
      isn't your pigeon. That's the morning sun shining on the chimney."</p>
   
   <p>But little by little <span class="hoverable male_action">Hansel
         dropped all the crumbs onto the path.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>
      <span class="hoverable female_action">The woman took them deeper
         into the woods than they had ever been in their whole lifetime.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>Once again a large fire was made, and the mother said, "Sit here, children. If you
      get
      tired you can sleep a little. We are going into the woods to cut wood. We will come
      and
      get you in the evening when we are finished."</p>
   
   <p>When it was midday <span class="hoverable female_action">Gretel
         shared her bread with Hansel, who had scattered his piece along the path.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>
      <span class="hoverable mixed_action">Then they fell asleep, and
         evening passed, but no one came to get the poor children.</span><span class="hover">passive, mixed, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>It was dark at night when they awoke, and <span class="hoverable male_action">Hansel comforted Gretel and said, "Wait, when the moon comes up
         I will be able to see the crumbs of bread that I scattered, and they will show us
         the way back home."</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>When the moon appeared <span class="hoverable mixed_action">they
         got up, but they could not find any crumbs,</span><span class="hover">active, mixed, eager</span> for the many thousands of birds
      that fly about in the woods and in the fields had pecked them up.</p>
   
   <p>Hansel said to Gretel, "We will find our way," but they did not find it.</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable mixed_action">They walked through the entire
         night and the next day from morning until evening, but they did not find their way
         out of the woods.</span><span class="hover">active, mixed, eager</span> They were terribly hungry, for they had eaten only a few
      small berries that were growing on the ground. And because they were so tired that
      their
      legs would no longer carry them, <span class="hoverable mixed_action">they lay down under a tree and fell asleep.</span><span class="hover">passive, mixed, eager</span> It was
      already the third morning since they had left the father's house. <span class="hoverable mixed_action">They started walking again, but
         managed only to go deeper and deeper into the woods.</span><span class="hover">active, mixed, eager</span> If help did not come
      soon, they would perish. At midday they saw a little snow-white bird sitting on a
      branch. It sang so beautifully that they stopped to listen. When it was finished it
      stretched its wings and flew in front of them. They followed it until they came to
      a
      little house. The bird sat on the roof, and when they came closer, they saw that the
      little house was built entirely from bread with a roof made of cake, and the windows
      were made of clear sugar.</p>
   
   <p>"Let's help ourselves to a good meal," said Hansel. "I'll eat a piece of the roof,
      and
      Gretel, you eat from the window. That will be sweet."</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_action">Hansel reached up and broke off
         a little of the roof to see how it tasted,</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> while Gretel stood next to the
      windowpanes and was nibbling at them. Then a gentle voice called out from inside:</p>
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l">Nibble, nibble, little mouse,</span>
      <span class="l">Who is nibbling at my house?</span>
      <span class="l">The children answered:</span>
      <span class="l">The wind, the wind,</span>
      <span class="l">The heavenly child.</span>
      </span>
   
   <p>They continued to eat, without being distracted. Hansel, who very much like the taste
      of
      the roof, <span class="hoverable male_action">tore down another
         large piece,</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> and <span class="hoverable female_action">Gretel poked out an entire round windowpane.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> Suddenly
      the door opened, and <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">a woman, as old as the
         hills and leaning on a crutch,</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> came creeping out. Hansel and Gretel
      were so frightened that they dropped what they were holding in their hands.</p>
   
   <p>But the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman shook her head
      and said, "Oh, you dear children, who brought you here? Just come in and stay with
      me.
      No harm will come to you."</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">She took them by the hand and
         led them into her house. Then she served them a good meal:</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> milk and
      pancakes with sugar, apples, and nuts. Afterward <span class="hoverable female_action">she made two nice beds for them,</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> decked in white.
      <span class="hoverable mixed_action">Hansel and Gretel went
         to bed, thinking they were in heaven.</span><span class="hover">passive, mixed, eager</span> But the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman had only pretended to be friendly. She was a
      <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">wicked witch</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>
      <span class="hoverable female_action">who was lying in wait there
         for children. She had built her house of bread only in order to lure them to her,
         and if she captured one, she would kill him, cook him, and eat him; and for her that
         was a day to celebrate.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_descriptor">Witches have red eyes and cannot see very
         far, but they have a sense of smell like animals, and know when humans are
         approaching.</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span></p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">When Hansel and Gretel came
         near to her, she laughed <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">wickedly</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> and spoke <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">scornfully</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>, "Now I have them. They will not get away from me
         again."</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>Early the next morning, before they awoke, she got up, went to their beds, and looked
      at
      the <span class="hoverable mixed_descriptor"> two of them lying there so peacefully,
         with their full red cheeks.</span><span class="hover">positive, mixed</span> "They will be a good mouthful," she mumbled
      to herself. <span class="hoverable female_action">Then she grabbed
         Hansel with her withered hand and carried him to a little stall, where she locked
         him behind a cage door.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> Cry as he might, there was no help for him.</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">Then she shook Gretel and
         cried,</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> "Get up, <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">lazybones!</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> Fetch water and cook something good for your brother. He is
      locked outside in the stall and is to be fattened up. When he is fat I am going to
      eat
      him."</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">Gretel began to cry, but
         it was all for nothing. She had to do what the witch demanded.</span><span class="hover">passive, female, hesitant</span> Now Hansel
      was given the best things to eat every day, but Gretel received nothing but crayfish
      shells.</p>
   
   <p>Every morning the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman crept
      out to the stall and shouted, "Hansel, stick out your finger, so I can feel if you
      are
      fat yet."</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_action">But Hansel stuck out a little
         bone,</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> and the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span>
      woman, who had bad eyes and could not see the bone, thought it was Hansel's finger,
      and
      she wondered why he didn't get fat.</p>
   
   <p>When four weeks had passed and Hansel was still thin, impatience overcame her, and
      <span class="hoverable female_action">she would wait no
         longer.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> "Hey, Gretel!" she shouted to the girl, "Hurry up and fetch some
      water. Whether Hansel is fat or thin, <span class="hoverable female_action">tomorrow I am going to slaughter him and boil him."</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>Oh, how <span class="hoverable female_action">the poor little
         sister sobbed as she was forced to carry the water, and how the tears streamed down
         her cheeks!</span><span class="hover">passive, female, hesitant</span> "Dear God, please help us," she cried. "If only the wild
      animals had devoured us in the woods, then we would have died together."</p>
   
   <p>"Save your slobbering," said the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman. "It doesn't help you at all."</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">The next morning Gretel
         had to get up early, hang up the kettle with water, and make a fire.</span><span class="hover">passive, female, hesitant</span></p>
   
   <p>"First we are going to bake," said the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman. "I have already made a fire in the oven and kneaded the
      dough."</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">She pushed poor Gretel
         outside to the oven,</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> from which fiery flames were leaping. "Climb in," said
      the witch, "and see if it is hot enough to put the bread in yet." And when Gretel
      was
      inside, she intended to close the oven, and bake her, and eat her as well.</p>
   
   <p>But Gretel saw what she had in mind, so she said, "I don't know how to do that. How
      can I
      get inside?"</p>
   
   <p>"<span class="hoverable female_descriptor">Stupid goose,"</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> said the
      <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman. The opening is
      big enough. See, I myself could get in." And she crawled up stuck her head into the
      oven.</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">Then Gretel gave her a shove,
         causing her to fall in. Then she closed the iron door and secured it with a
         bar.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> The <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman
      began to howl frightfully. <span class="hoverable female_action">But Gretel ran away, and the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">godless
            witch</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> burned up miserably. Gretel ran straight to Hansel, unlocked
         his stall, and cried, "Hansel, we are saved. The <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old witch</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> is dead."</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_action">Then Hansel jumped out, like a
         bird from its cage when someone opens its door.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> How happy they were! They
      threw their arms around each other's necks, jumped with joy, and kissed one another.
      Because they now had nothing to fear, they went into the witch's house. In every corner
      were chests of pearls and precious stones.</p>
   
   <p>"These are better than pebbles," said Hansel, filling his pockets.</p>
   
   <p>Gretel said, <span class="hoverable female_action">"I will take
         some home with me as well," and she filled her apron full.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>"But now we must leave," said Hansel, "and get out of these witch-woods."</p>
   
   <p>After walking a few hours they arrived at a large body of water. "We cannot get across,"
      said Hansel. "I cannot see a walkway or a bridge."</p>
   
   <p>"There are no boats here," answered Gretel, "but there is a white duck swimming. If
      I ask
      it, it will help us across."</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">Then she called
         out:</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l">Duckling, duckling,</span>
      <span class="l">Here stand Gretel and Hansel.</span>
      <span class="l">Neither a walkway nor a bridge,</span>
      <span class="l">Take us onto your white back.</span>
      </span>
   
   <p>The duckling came up to them, and Hansel climbed onto it, then asked his <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">little sister</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> to sit down next to
      him.</p>
   
   <p>"No," answered Gretel. "That would be too heavy for the duckling. It should take us
      across one at a time."</p>
   
   <p>That is what the good animal did, and when they were safely on the other side, and
      had
      walked on a little while, the woods grew more and more familiar to them, and finally
      they saw the father's house in the distance. <span class="hoverable mixed_action">They began to run, rushed inside, and threw their arms around
         the father's neck.</span><span class="hover">active, mixed, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>The <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">man had not had even one happy hour since
         he had left the children in the woods.</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span> However, the woman had died.
      Gretel shook out her apron, scattering pearls and precious stones around the room,
      and
      Hansel added to them by throwing one handful after the other from his pockets.</p>
   
   <p> Now all their cares were at an end, and they lived happily together.</p>
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l">My tale is done,</span>
      <span class="l">A mouse has run.</span>
      <span class="l">And whoever catches it can make for himself from it a large, large fur cap.</span>
      </span>
   
   </article>