<article xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <h2>Hansel and Gretel</h2>
   
   
   <p>Next to a great forest there lived a <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">poor
         woodcutter</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> who had come upon such hard times that he could scarcely
      provide daily bread for his wife and his two children, Hansel and Gretel. <span class="hoverable male_action">Finally he could no longer even
         manage this,</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span> and he did not know where to turn for help.</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_action">One evening as he was lying in
         bed worrying about his problems,</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span> his wife said to him, "Listen, man, early
      tomorrow take the two children, give each of them a little piece of bread, then lead
      them into the middle of thickest part of the woods, make a fire for them, and leave
      them
      there, for we can no longer feed them."</p>
   
   <p>"No, woman," said the man, <span class="hoverable male_action">I
         cannot bring myself to abandon my own children to wild animals that would quickly
         tear them to pieces."</span><span class="hover">active, male, hesitant</span></p>
   
   <p>"If you don't do it," said the woman, "all of us will starve together," <span class="hoverable female_action">and she gave him no peace until
         he said yes.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable mixed_action">The two children were still
         awake from hunger and heard everything that the mother had said to the
         father.</span><span class="hover">passive, mixed, neutral</span></p>
   
   <p>Gretel thought that <span class="hoverable female_action">she
         was doomed and began to cry pitifully,</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span> but Hansel said, "Be quiet, Gretel,
      and don't worry. <span class="hoverable male_action">I know what
         to do."</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_action">With that he got up, pulled on
         his jacket, opened the lower door, and crept outside.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>The moon was shining brightly, and the white pebbles were glistening like silver coins.
      <span class="hoverable male_action">Hansel bent over and
         filled his jacket pockets with them, as many as would fit.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>Then he went back into the house and said, "Don't worry, Gretel. Sleep well." Then
      he
      went back to bed, and fell asleep.</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">The next morning the mother
         came and woke them both</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> before sunrise, "Get up, you children. We are going
      into the woods. Here is a little piece of bread. Take care and save it until
      midday."</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">Gretel put the bread under
         her apron, because Hansel's pockets were full of stones,</span><span class="hover">passive, female, eager</span> and <span class="hoverable mixed_action">they set forth into the
         woods.</span><span class="hover">active, mixed, eager</span></p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable mixed_action">After they had walked a little
         way,</span><span class="hover">active, mixed, eager</span> Hansel <span class="hoverable male_action">began stopping again and again and looking back toward the house.</span><span class="hover">active, male, hesitant</span></p>
   
   <p>The father said, "Hansel, why are you stopping and looking back? Pay attention now,
      and
      keep up with us."</p>
   
   <p>"Oh, father, I am looking at my white cat that is sitting on the roof and wants to
      say
      good-bye to me."</p>
   
   <p>The mother said, <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">"You fool,</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> that
      isn't your cat. That's the morning sun shining on the chimney."</p>
   
   <p>However, <span class="hoverable male_action">Hansel had not been
         looking at his cat but instead had been dropping the shiny pebbles from his pocket
         onto the path.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>When they arrived in the middle of the woods, the father said, "You children gather
      some
      wood, and I will make a fire so we won't freeze."</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable mixed_action">Hansel and Gretel gathered
         together some twigs,</span><span class="hover">active, mixed, eager</span> a pile as high as a small mountain</p>
   
   <p>They set it afire, and when the flames were burning well, the mother said, "Lie down
      by
      the fire and sleep. We will go into the woods to cut down trees. Wait until we come
      back
      and get you."</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable mixed_action">Hansel and Gretel sat by
         the fire until midday, and then ate their bread.</span><span class="hover">passive, mixed, neutral</span></p>
   
   <p>They <span class="hoverable mixed_action">sat on until
         evening</span><span class="hover">passive, mixed, hesitant</span>, but the mother and father <span class="hoverable mixed_action">did not return</span><span class="hover">active, mixed, eager</span>, and no one came to get them.</p>
   
   <p>When it became dark, <span class="hoverable female_action">Gretel began to cry,</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span> but Hansel said, "Wait a little until the moon comes
      up."</p>
   
   <p>After the moon had come up, <span class="hoverable male_action">he
         took Gretel by the hand.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>The pebbles were lying there like newly minted coins. Glistening, they showed them
      the
      way.</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable mixed_action">They walked throughout the
         entire night, and as morning was breaking, they arrived at the father's
         house.</span><span class="hover">active, mixed, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>The father was <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">overjoyed</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span> when he
      saw his children once more, for he had not wanted to leave them alone. The mother
      pretended that she too was happy, but secretly she was <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">angry.</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span></p>
   
   <p>Not long afterward there was once again no bread in the house, and one evening Hansel
      and
      Gretel heard the mother say to the father, "The children found their way back once,
      and
      I let it be, but again we have only a half loaf of bread in the house. Tomorrow you
      must
      take them deeper into the woods, so they cannot find their way home. Otherwise there
      will be no help for us."</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_action">The man was very
         disheartened, and he thought it would be better to share the last bit with the
         children, but because he had done it once, he could not say no.</span><span class="hover">passive, male, hesitant</span></p>
   
   <p>Hansel and Gretel <span class="hoverable mixed_action">heard the
         parents' conversation.</span><span class="hover">passive, mixed, neutral</span></p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_action">Hansel got up and wanted to
         gather pebbles once again,</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> but when he came to the door, he found that
      <span class="hoverable female_action">the mother had locked
         it.</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span></p>
   
   <p>Still, he <span class="hoverable male_action">comforted Gretel and
         said, "Just go to sleep, Gretel dear. God will help us."</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>Early the next morning they <span class="hoverable mixed_action">received their little pieces of bread</span><span class="hover">passive, mixed, neutral</span>, even less than the last time.</p>
   
   <p>On the way, <span class="hoverable male_action">Hansel crumbled his
         piece in his pocket, then often stood still, and threw crumbs onto the
         ground.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>"Why are you always stopping and looking around?" said his father. "Keep walking straight
      ahead."</p>
   
   <p>"Oh!, I can see my pigeon sitting on the roof. It wants to say good-bye to me."</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_descriptor">"You fool,"</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> said his mother, "that
      isn't your pigeon. That's the morning sun shining on the chimney."</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_action">But Hansel crumbled all of his
         bread and dropped the crumbs onto the path.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">The mother took them deeper
         into the woods than they had ever been in their whole lifetime.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>There they were told to sleep by a large fire, and that the parents would come and
      get
      them in the evening.</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">At midday Gretel shared her
         bread with Hansel, because he had scattered all of his along the path.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>Midday passed, and evening passed, but no one came to get the <span class="hoverable mixed_descriptor">poor</span><span class="hover">negative, mixed</span> children.</p>
   
   <p>Hansel comforted Gretel and said, "Wait, when the moon comes up I will be able to
      see the
      crumbs of bread that I scattered, and they will show us the way back home."</p>
   
   <p>The moon came up, but when <span class="hoverable male_action">Hansel looked for the crumbs, they were gone.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> The many thousands of birds
      in the woods had found them and pecked them up.</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_action">Hansel thought that he would
         still be able to find the way home,</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> and <span class="hoverable mixed_action">he and Gretel set forth, but they soon became
         totally lost in the great wilderness.</span><span class="hover">active, mixed, eager</span></p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable mixed_action">They walked through the night
         and the entire next day, and then, <span class="hoverable mixed_descriptor">exhausted</span><span class="hover">negative, mixed</span>, they fell asleep. They walked another day, but they
         could not find their way out of the woods.</span><span class="hover">active, mixed, eager</span></p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable mixed_action">They were terribly hungry,
         for they had eaten only a few small berries that were growing on the
         ground.</span><span class="hover">passive, mixed, hesitant</span></p>
   
   <p>On the third day <span class="hoverable mixed_action">they walked
         until midday when they came to a little house</span><span class="hover">active, mixed, eager</span> built entirely from bread
      with a roof made of cake, and the windows were made of clear sugar.</p>
   
   <p>"Let's sit down and eat our fill," said Hansel. "I'll eat from the roof, and Gretel,
      you
      eat from the window. That will be nice and sweet for you."</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable mixed_action">Hansel had already eaten a
         piece from the roof and Gretel had eaten a few round windowpanes, and she had just
         broken out another one when she heard a gentle voice calling out from
         inside:</span><span class="hover">passive, mixed, neutral</span></p>
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l">Nibble, nibble, little mouse,</span>
      <span class="l">Who is nibbling at my house?</span>
      </span>
   
   <p>Hansel and Gretel were so frightened that they dropped what they were holding in their
      hands, and immediately they saw a <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">little
         woman, as old as the hills,</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> creeping out the door.</p>
   
   <p>She shook her head and said, "Oh, you dear children, where did you come from? Come
      inside
      with me, and you will be just fine."</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">She took them by the hand and
         led them into her house.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>Then <span class="hoverable female_action">she served them a good
         meal:</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> pancakes with sugar, apples, and nuts; and made two nice beds for
      them.</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable mixed_action">Hansel and Gretel went to
         bed, thinking it was though they were in heaven.</span><span class="hover">passive, mixed, neutral</span></p>
   
   <p>But the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman was a
      <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">wicked witch</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> who was lying
      in wait there for children.</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">She had built her house of
         bread in order to lure them to her, and if she captured one, she would kill him,
         cook him, and eat him; and for her that was a day to celebrate.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>So she was <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">overjoyed</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> that Hansel
      and Gretel had found their way to her.</p>
   
   <p>Early the next morning, before they awoke, <span class="hoverable female_action">she got up, went to their beds, and looked at the two of them
         lying there</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> so peacefully.</p>
   
   <p>"They will be a good mouthful," she thought.</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">She grabbed Hansel and put
         him in a little stall,</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> and when he awoke, he found himself in a cage,
      locked up <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">like a young dog</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span>, and
      he could walk only a few steps.</p>
   
   <p>Then <span class="hoverable female_action">she shook Gretel and
         cried,</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> "Get up, <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">lazybones!</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> Fetch water. Go into the kitchen and cook something to eat.
      Your brother is locked in that stall there. I want to fatten him up, and <span class="hoverable female_action">when he is fat I am going to eat
         him.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> For now, you have to feed him."</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">Gretel was <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">frightened</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> and cried, but she had
         to do what the witch demanded.</span><span class="hover">passive, female, hesitant</span></p>
   
   <p>Now Hansel was given the best things to eat every day, so he would get fat, but Gretel
      received nothing but crayfish shells.</p>
   
   <p>Every day the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman came and
      said, "Hansel, stick out your finger, so I can feel if you are fat enough yet."</p>
   
   <p>But <span class="hoverable male_action">Hansel always stuck out a
         little bone,</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> and she wondered why he didn't get any fatter.</p>
   
   <p>After four weeks, one evening she said to Gretel, "Hurry up and fetch some water.
      Whether
      your brother is fat enough now or not, tomorrow <span class="hoverable female_action">I am going to slaughter him and boil him.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> In the
      meantime I want to start the dough that we will bake to go with him."</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">With a sad heart Gretel
         fetched the water in which Hansel was to be boiled.</span><span class="hover">passive, female, hesitant</span></p>
   
   <p>The next morning Gretel had to get up early, make a fire, and hang up the kettle with
      water.</p>
   
   <p>"Watch it until it boils," said the witch. "I am going to make a fire in the oven
      and put
      the bread into it."</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">Gretel stood in the
         kitchen and cried tears of blood and thought that it would have been better if wild
         animals had devoured them in the woods,</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span> for then they would at least have
      died together and would not now be suffering so, and she herself would not have to
      be
      boiling the water that would kill her dear brother; and she prayed, "Dear God, save
      us
      poor children."</p>
   
   <p>Then the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman called,
      "Gretel, come here right now to the oven."</p>
   
   <p>And when Gretel came, she said, "Look inside and see if the bread is nicely brown
      and
      done, for my eyes are weak, and I can't see that far. If you can't see that far either,
      then sit on the board, and I'll push you inside, then you can walk around inside and
      take a look."</p>
   
   <p>But once Gretel was inside, the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">witch</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> intended to close the door, and bake her in the hot oven, and
      eat her as well. That is what the <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">wicked
         witch</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> was thinking, and that is why she called Gretel.</p>
   
   <p>However, God let <span class="hoverable female_action">Gretel know
         this, so she said, "I don't know how to do that. First show me. You sit on the
         board, and I will push you inside."</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>So the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman sat on the
      board, and since she was light, <span class="hoverable female_action">Gretel pushed her all the way inside, then quickly closed the
         door and secured it with an iron bar.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>The <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman in the hot oven
      began to cry and to wail, but Gretel ran away, and the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman burned up miserably.</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">Gretel ran to Hansel and
         unlocked his door.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_action">He jumped out,</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> and
      they kissed each other and were overjoyed.</p>
   
   <p>The whole house was filled with precious stones and pearls.</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable mixed_action">They filled their pockets,
         then ran away and found their way back home.</span><span class="hover">active, mixed, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>The <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">father rejoiced when he saw them once more,
         for he had not had a happy day since they had been gone,</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span> and now he was
      a <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">rich man.</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span> However, the mother
      had died.</p>
   
   </article>