<article xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <h2>Hans-My-Hedgehog (1815)</h2>
   
   <p>Once upon a time there was a peasant who had money and land enough, but as <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">rich</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span> as he was, there was still something
      <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">missing from his happiness</span><span class="hover">negatve, male</span>: He had
      no children with his wife. Often when he went to the city with the other peasants,
      they
      would mock him and ask him why he had no children. He finally became <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">angry</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span>, and when he returned home, he said, "I
      will have a child, even if it is a hedgehog."</p>
   
   <p>Then his wife had a baby, and the top half was a hedgehog and the bottom half a boy.
      When she
      saw the baby, she was <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">horrified</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> and
      said, "Now see what you have wished upon us!"</p>
   
   <p>The man said, "It cannot be helped. The boy must be baptized, but we cannot ask anyone
      to be
      his godfather."</p>
   
   <p>The woman said, "And the only name that we can <span class="hoverable female_action">give him is Hans-My-Hedgehog</span><span class="hover">active, female, hesitant</span>."</p>
   
   <p>When he was baptized, the pastor said, "Because of his quills he cannot be given an
      ordinary
      bed." So they put a little straw behind the stove and laid him in it. And he could
      not drink
      from his mother, for he would have stuck her with his quills. He <span class="hoverable male_action">lay there behind the stove for eight years</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span>,
      and his father <span class="hoverable male_action">grew tired of
         him</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span>, and thought, "if only he would die." But he did not die, but just lay
      there.</p>
   
   <p>Now it happened that there was a fair in the city, and the peasant wanted to go. He
      <span class="hoverable male_action">asked</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> his wife what he
      should bring her.</p>
   
   <p>"A little meat, some bread rolls, and things for the household," she said. Then he
      <span class="hoverable male_action">asked</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> the servant girl, and
      she wanted a pair of slippers and some fancy stockings.</p>
   
   <p>Finally, he also <span class="hoverable male_action">said</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span>,
      "Hans-My-Hedgehog, what would you like?"</p>
   
   <p>"Father," he said, "bring me some bagpipes."</p>
   
   <p>When the peasant <span class="hoverable male_action">returned
         home</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span> he gave his wife what he had brought for her, meat and bread rolls. Then
      he gave the servant girl the slippers and fancy stockings. And finally he went behind
      the
      stove and gave Hans-My-Hedgehog the bagpipes.</p>
   
   <p>When Hans-My-Hedgehog had them, he said, "Father, go to the blacksmith's and have
      my
      cock-rooster shod, then I will ride away and never again come back." The father was
      happy to
      get rid of him, so he <span class="hoverable male_action">had his
         rooster shod</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>, and when it was done, Hans-My-Hedgehog <span class="hoverable male_action">climbed</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> on it and rode away. He <span class="hoverable male_action">took</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> pigs and donkeys with
      him, to tend in the forest.</p>
   
   <p>In the forest the rooster flew into a tall tree with him. There he <span class="hoverable male_action">sat</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span> and <span class="hoverable male_action">watched</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span> over the donkeys and the pigs. He
      <span class="hoverable male_action">sat there for
         years</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span>, until finally the herd had grown large. His father knew nothing about
      him. While <span class="hoverable male_action">sitting</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span> in
      the tree, he <span class="hoverable male_action">played his
         bagpipes</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> and made beautiful music.</p>
   
   <p>One day a king came by. He was lost and heard the music. He was amazed to hear it,
      and
      <span class="hoverable male_action">sent a servant</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span> to
      look around and see where it was coming from. He <span class="hoverable male_action">looked here</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> and there but only saw a little animal
      sitting high in a tree. It looked like a rooster up there with a hedgehog sitting
      on it
      making the music.</p>
   
   <p>The king <span class="hoverable male_action">said to the
         servant</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span> that he should ask him why he was sitting there, and if he knew the way
      back to his kingdom. Then Hans-My-Hedgehog <span class="hoverable male_action">climbed</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> down from the tree and told him that he would
      show him the way if the king would <span class="hoverable male_action">promise</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span> in writing to give him the first thing that
      greeted him at the royal court upon his arrival home.</p>
   
   <p>The king thought, "I can do that easily enough. Hans-My-Hedgehog cannot understand
      writing,
      and I can put down what I want to."</p>
   
   <p>Then the king took pen and ink and <span class="hoverable male_action">wrote something</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>, and after he had done so, Hans-My-Hedgehog <span class="hoverable male_action">showed him the way</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span>, and he
      arrived safely at home. His daughter saw him coming from afar, and was so overjoyed
      that she
      <span class="hoverable female_action">ran</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> to meet him and
      <span class="hoverable female_action">kissed</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> him. He
      thought about Hans-My-Hedgehog and told her what had happened, that he was supposed
      to have
      promised the first thing that greeted him to a strange animal that rode a rooster
      and made
      beautiful music. But instead he had written that this would not happen, for Hans-My-Hedgehog
      could not read. The princess was <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">happy</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> about this, and said that it was a good thing, for she would not
      have gone with him in any event.</p>
   
   <p>Hans-My-Hedgehog tended the donkeys and pigs, was of <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">good cheer</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span>, and sat in the tree <span class="hoverable male_action">blowing on his bagpipes</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span>.</p>
   
   <p>Now it happened that another king came this way with his servants and messengers.
      He too
      <span class="hoverable male_action">got lost</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span> and did
      not know the way back home because the forest was so large. He too heard the beautiful
      music
      from afar, and <span class="hoverable male_action">asked one of his
         messengers</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span> to go and see what it was and where it was coming from. The
      messenger <span class="hoverable male_action">ran</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> to the
      tree where he saw Hans-My-Hedgehog astride the cock-rooster. The messenger asked him
      what he
      was doing up there.</p>
   
   <p>"I am <span class="hoverable male_action">tending</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span> my
      donkeys and pigs. What is it that you want?" replied Hans-My-Hedgehog.</p>
   
   <p>The messenger said that they were lost and could not find their way back to their
      kingdom,
      and asked him if he could not show them the way.</p>
   
   <p>Then Hans-My-Hedgehog <span class="hoverable male_action">climbed</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> down from the tree with his rooster and told the old king that he
      would show him the way if he would give him the thing that he first met at home before
      the
      royal castle.</p>
   
   <p>The king said yes and <span class="hoverable male_action">signed a
         promise</span><span class="hover">active, male, hesitant</span> to Hans-My-Hedgehog.</p>
   
   <p>When that was done, Hans-My-Hedgehog rode ahead on his rooster <span class="hoverable male_action">showing them the way</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span>, and the king safely
      reached his kingdom. When the king arrived at his court there was great joy. Now he
      had an
      only daughter who was <span class="hoverable fenale_descriptor">very
         beautiful</span><span class="hover">positive, fenale</span>. She <span class="hoverable female_action">ran out to him</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>, <span class="hoverable female_action">threw her arms around his neck</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> and <span class="hoverable female_action">kissed</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> him, and was ever <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">so happy</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> that her old father had returned.</p>
   
   <p>She <span class="hoverable female_action">asked</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> him where he
      had been during his long absence, and he <span class="hoverable male_action">told her</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> how he had lost his way and almost not made it
      home again, but that as he was making his way through a great forest he had come upon
      a half
      hedgehog, half human astride a rooster sitting in a tall tree and making beautiful
      music who
      had shown him the way, but whom he had promised whatever first met him at the royal
      court,
      and it was she herself, and he was terribly <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">sorry</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span>.</p>
   
   <p>But she <span class="hoverable female_action">promised</span><span class="hover">active, female, hesitant</span> that
      she would go with him when he came, for the <span class="hoverable female_action">love</span><span class="hover">passive, female, eager</span> of her old father.</p>
   
   <p>Hans-My-Hedgehog <span class="hoverable male_action">tended his
         pigs</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span>, and the pigs had more pigs, until there were so many that the whole
      forest was full. Then Hans-My-Hedgehog let his father know that they should empty
      out all
      the stalls in the village, because he was <span class="hoverable male_action">coming</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> with such a large herd of pigs that everyone who
      wanted to would be able to take part in the slaughter.</p>
   
   <p>It saddened the father to hear this, for he thought that Hans-My-Hedgehog had long
      since
      died. But Hans-My-Hedgehog <span class="hoverable male_action">mounted his cock-rooster</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span>, <span class="hoverable male_action">drove the pigs</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> ahead of himself into the village, and
      <span class="hoverable male_action">had them
         butchered</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span>. What a slaughter! What a commotion! They could hear the noise two hours
      away!</p>
   
   <p>Afterward Hans-My-Hedgehog said, "Father, <span class="hoverable male_action">have my cock-rooster shod</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span> a second time at the
      blacksmith's. Then I will <span class="hoverable male_action">ride
         away</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> and not come back again as long as I live." So the father had the <span class="hoverable male_action">cock-rooster shod</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span>, and was
      happy that Hans-My-Hedgehog was not coming back.</p>
   
   <p>Hans-My-Hedgehog <span class="hoverable male_action">rode</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span>
      into the first kingdom. The king had <span class="hoverable male_action">ordered</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span> that if anyone should approach who was carrying
      bagpipes and riding on a rooster, that he should be shot at, struck down, and stabbed,
      to
      prevent him from entering the castle. Thus when Hans-My-Hedgehog rode up, they <span class="hoverable male_action">attacked</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> him with bayonets,
      but he <span class="hoverable male_action">spurred his
         rooster</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> on, flew over the gate and up to the king's window. Landing there, he
      <span class="hoverable male_action">shouted</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> to him, to
      give him what he had promised, or it would cost him and his daughter their lives.</p>
   
   <p>Then the king <span class="hoverable male_action">told the
         princess</span><span class="hover">passive, male, hesitant</span> to go out to him, in order to save his life and her own as well. She
      <span class="hoverable female_action">put on a white
         dress</span><span class="hover">active, female, hesitant</span>, and her father gave her a carriage with six horses, magnificent
      servants, money, and property. She <span class="hoverable female_action">climbed</span><span class="hover">active, female, hesitant</span> aboard and Hans-My-Hedgehog <span class="hoverable male_action">took his place beside her</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span>
      with his rooster and bagpipes. They said farewell and drove off.</p>
   
   <p>The king thought that he would never see them again. However, it did not go as he
      thought it
      would, for when they had traveled a short distance from the city, Hans-My-Hedgehog
      <span class="hoverable male_action">pulled off her beautiful
         clothes</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> and <span class="hoverable male_action">stuck
         her</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> with his quills until she was bloody all over. "This is the reward for your
      deceit. Go away. I do not want you." With that he sent her back home, and she was
      <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">cursed</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> as long as she
      lived.</p>
   
   <p>Hans-My-Hedgehog, astride his cock-rooster and carrying his bagpipes, <span class="hoverable male_action">rode on</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> to the second kingdom where he had
      also helped the king find his way. This one, in contrast, had ordered that if anyone
      looking
      like Hans-My-Hedgehog should arrive, he should be saluted and brought to the royal
      castle
      with honors and with a military escort.</p>
   
   <p>When the princess saw him she was <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">horrified</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>, because he looked so <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">strange</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span>, but she thought that nothing could be done about it, because she
      had <span class="hoverable female_action">promised</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span> her
      father to go with him. She <span class="hoverable female_action">welcomed</span><span class="hover">active, female, neutral</span> Hans-My-Hedgehog, and they were married. Then he was taken to the
      royal table, and she <span class="hoverable female_action">sat next
         to him</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span> while they ate and drank, and they were married.</p>
   
   <p>That evening when it was time to go to bed, she was <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">afraid</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> of his quills, but he told her to have no fear, for
      he would not hurt her. He <span class="hoverable male_action">told
         the old king</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span> to have four men keep watch by their bedroom door. They should
      make a large fire. He said that he would take off his hedgehog skin after going into
      the
      bedroom, and before getting into bed. The men should immediately pick it up and <span class="hoverable male_action">throw it</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> into the fire, and
      then stay there until it was completely consumed by the fire.</p>
   
   <p>When the clock struck eleven, he went into the bedroom, took off the hedgehog skin,
      and
      <span class="hoverable male_action">laid</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> it down by the
      bed. The men <span class="hoverable male_action">rushed in</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span>,
      <span class="hoverable male_action">grabbed it</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span>, and
      <span class="hoverable male_action">threw it</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> into the
      fire, and as soon as the fire consumed it, he was redeemed, and he lay there in bed
      entirely
      in the shape of a human. But he was as black as coal, as though he had been charred.
      The
      king sent for his physician, who washed him with good salves and balms. Then he became
      white
      and was a <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">handsome</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span>
      <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">young</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span>
      <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">gentleman</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span>.</p>
   
   <p>When the princess saw what had happened, she was <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">overjoyed</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span>, and they got up and ate and drank. Now their wedding was
      celebrated for real, and Hans-My-Hedgehog <span class="hoverable male_action">inherited</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span> the old king's kingdom.</p>
   
   <p>Some years later he <span class="hoverable male_action">traveled with
         his wife</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span> to his father, and said that he was his son. But the father said that
      he did not have a son. He had had one, but he had been born with quills like a hedgehog
      and
      had gone off into the world. Then he said that he was the one, and the old father
      <span class="hoverable male_action">rejoiced</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> and returned with
      him to his kingdom.</p>
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l">My tale is done,</span>
      <span class="l">And has gone</span>
      <span class="l">To Gustchen's home.</span>
      </span>
   </article>