<article xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <h2>Little Red Cap (1812)</h2>
   
   <p>Once upon a time there was a <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">sweet</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span>
      <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">little</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> girl. Everyone who saw
      her liked her, but most of all her grandmother, who did not know what to give the
      child
      next. Once she <span class="hoverable female_action">gave her a
         little cap made of red velvet</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>. Because it suited her so well, and she
      wanted to wear it all the time, she <span class="hoverable female_action">came to be known as Little Red Cap</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>.</p>
   
   <p>One day her mother said to her, "Come Little Red Cap. Here is a piece of cake and
      a
      bottle of wine. Take them to your grandmother. She is <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">sick</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> and <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">weak</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>, and they will do her well. Mind your manners and give her my
      greetings. Behave yourself on the way, and do not leave the path, or you might fall
      down
      and break the glass, and then there will be nothing for your <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">sick</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> grandmother."</p>
   
   
   <p>Little Red Cap <span class="hoverable female_action">promised to
         obey her mother</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>. The grandmother lived out in the woods, a half hour from
      the village. When Little Red Cap entered the woods a wolf came up to her. <span class="hoverable female_action">She did not know what a
         <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">wicked</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> animal he was, and
         was not afraid of him</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>.</p>
   
   
   <p>"Good day to you, Little Red Cap."</p>
   
   
   <p>"Thank you, wolf."</p>
   
   
   <p>"Where are you going so early, Little Red Cap?"</p>
   
   
   <p>"To grandmother's."</p>
   
   
   <p>"And what are you carrying under your apron?"</p>
   
   
   <p>"Grandmother is <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">sick</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> and
      <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">weak</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>, and I <span class="hoverable female_action">am taking her some cake and
         wine</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>. We baked yesterday, and they should give her strength."</p>
   
   
   <p>"Little Red Cap, just where does your grandmother live?"</p>
   
   
   <p>"Her house is a good quarter hour from here in the woods, under the three large oak
      trees. There's a hedge of hazel bushes there. You must know the place," said Little
      Red
      Cap.</p>
   
   
   <p>The wolf thought to himself, "Now there is a tasty bite for me. Just how are you going
      to
      catch her?" Then he said, "Listen, Little Red Cap, haven't you seen the beautiful
      flowers that are blossoming in the woods? Why don't you go and take a look? And I
      don't
      believe you can hear how beautifully the birds are singing. You are walking along
      as
      though you were on your way to school in the village. It is very beautiful in the
      woods."</p>
   
   
   <p>Little Red Cap <span class="hoverable female_action">opened her
         eyes and saw the sunlight breaking through the trees and how the ground was covered
         with beautiful flowers. She thought, "If a take a bouquet to grandmother, she will
         be very pleased. Anyway, it is still early, and I'll be home on time." And she ran
         off into the woods looking for flowers. Each time she picked one she thought that
         she could see an even more beautiful one a little way off, and she ran after it,
         going further and further into the woods</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>. But the wolf <span class="hoverable male_action">ran straight to the grandmother's
         house and knocked on the door</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>.</p>
   
   
   <p>"Who's there?"</p>
   
   
   <p>"Little Red Cap. I'm <span class="hoverable male_action">bringing
         you some cake and wine</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>. Open the door for me."</p>
   
   
   <p>"Just press the latch," called out the grandmother. "I'm too <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">weak</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> to get up."</p>
   
   
   <p>The wolf <span class="hoverable male_action">pressed the latch, and
         the door opened. He stepped inside, went straight to the grandmother's bed, and ate
         her up. Then he took her clothes, put them on, and put her cap on his head. He got
         into her bed and pulled the curtains shut</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>.</p>
   
   
   <p>Little Red Cap <span class="hoverable female_action">had run after
         flowers, and did not continue on her way to grandmother's until she had gathered all
         that she could carry. When she arrived, she found, to her surprise, that the door
         was open</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>. She <span class="hoverable female_action">walked into the parlor, and everything looked so strange that
         she thought, "Oh, my God, why am I so afraid? I usually like it at
         grandmother's."</span><span class="hover">active, female, hesitant</span> Then she <span class="hoverable female_action">went to the bed and pulled back the curtains</span><span class="hover">active, female, hesitant</span>.
      Grandmother <span class="hoverable female_action">was lying
         there with her cap pulled down over her face and <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">looking very strange</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span></span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>.</p>
   
   
   <p>"Oh, grandmother, <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">what big ears you
         have</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span>!"</p>
   
   
   <p>"All the better to hear you with."</p>
   
   
   <p>"Oh, grandmother, <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">what big eyes you
         have</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span>!"</p>
   
   
   <p>"All the better to see you with."</p>
   
   
   <p>"Oh, grandmother, <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">what big hands you
         have</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span>!"</p>
   
   
   <p>"All the better to grab you with!"</p>
   
   
   <p>"Oh, grandmother, <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">what a horribly big mouth you
         have</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span>!"</p>
   
   
   <p>"All the better to eat you with!" And with that he <span class="hoverable male_action">jumped out of bed, jumped on top of <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">poor</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> Little Red Cap, and ate her up. As soon as the
         wolf had finished this tasty bite, he climbed back into bed, fell asleep, and began
         to snore very loudly</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>.</p>
   
   
   <p>A huntsman was just passing by. He thought it strange that the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman was <span class="hoverable female_action">snoring so loudly</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>, so he <span class="hoverable male_action">decided to take a look. He stepped inside, and in
         the bed there lay the wolf that he had been hunting for such a long time</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>.
      "He has eaten the grandmother, but perhaps she still can be saved. I won't shoot him,"
      thought the huntsman. So he <span class="hoverable male_action">took a pair of scissors and cut open his belly</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>.</p>
   
   
   <p>He had cut only a few strokes when he saw the red cap shining through. He cut a little
      more, and the girl <span class="hoverable female_action">jumped
         out and cried, "Oh, I was so frightened! It was so dark inside the wolf's
         body!"</span><span class="hover">passive, female, eager</span></p>
   
   
   <p>And then the grandmother <span class="hoverable female_action">came out alive as well</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>. Then Little Red Cap <span class="hoverable female_action">fetched some large heavy stones</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>. They
      filled the wolf's body with them, and <span class="hoverable male_action">when he woke up and tried to run away, the stones were so
         heavy that he fell down dead</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span>.</p>
   
   
   <p>The three of them were happy. The huntsman <span class="hoverable male_action">took the wolf's pelt</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>. The grandmother <span class="hoverable female_action">ate the cake and drank the wine
         that Little Red Cap had brought</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>. And Little Red Cap thought to herself,
      "<span class="hoverable female_action">As long as I live, I
         will never leave the path and run off into the woods by myself if mother tells me
         not to</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>."</p>
   
   
   <p>They also tell how Little Red Cap <span class="hoverable female_action">was taking some baked things to her grandmother another time,
         when another wolf <span class="hoverable male_action">spoke
            to her and wanted her to leave the path</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span></span><span class="hover">passive, female, eager</span>. But Little Red Cap
      <span class="hoverable female_action">took care and went
         straight to grandmother's</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>. She told her that she had seen the wolf, and
      that he had wished her a good day, but had stared at her in a <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">wicked</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> manner. "If we hadn't been on a
      public road, he <span class="hoverable female_action">would
         have eaten me up</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>," she said.</p>
   
   
   <p>"Come," said the grandmother. "<span class="hoverable female_action">Let's lock the door, so he can't get in</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>."</p>
   
   
   <p>Soon afterward the wolf <span class="hoverable male_action">knocked
         on the door and called out, "Open up, grandmother. It's Little Red Cap, and I'm
         bringing you some baked things."</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   
   <p>They remained silent, and did not open the door. The <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">wicked</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> one <span class="hoverable male_action">walked around the house several times, and finally jumped onto
         the roof. He wanted to wait until Little Red Cap went home that evening, then follow
         her and eat her up in the darkness</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>. But the grandmother saw what he was up
      to. There was a large stone trough in front of the house.</p>
   
   
   <p>"Fetch a bucket, Little Red Cap," she said. "Yesterday I cooked some sausage. Carry
      the
      water that I boiled them with to the trough." Little Red Cap <span class="hoverable female_action">carried water until the large, large trough was
         clear full</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>. <span class="hoverable male_action">The
         smell of sausage arose into the wolf's nose. He sniffed and looked down, stretching
         his neck so long that he could no longer hold himself, and he began to slide. He
         slid off the roof, fell into the trough, and drowned</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span>. And Little Red Cap
      <span class="hoverable female_action">returned home happily
         and safely</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>.</p>
   
   </article>