<article xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <h2>Little Snow-White (1812)</h2>
   
   <p>Once upon a time in midwinter, when the snowflakes were falling like feathers from
      heaven, a queen sat sewing at her window, which had a frame of black ebony wood. As
      she
      sewed she looked up at the snow and <span class="hoverable female_action">pricked her finger</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span> with her needle. Three drops of
      blood fell into the snow. The red on the white looked so beautiful that she thought
      to
      herself, "If only I had a child as white as snow, as red as blood, and as black as
      the
      wood in this frame."</p>
   
   <p>Soon afterward she had a little daughter who was as <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">white as snow</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span>, as <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">red as blood</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span>, and as <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">black as ebony wood</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span>, and therefore they called her
      Little Snow-White. And as soon as the child was born, the queen <span class="hoverable female_action">died</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>.</p>
   
   <p>A year later the king took himself another wife. She was a <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">beautiful</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> woman, but she was <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">proud</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> and <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">arrogant</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>, and she could not stand it if anyone might
      surpass her in beauty. She had a magic mirror. <span class="hoverable female_action">Every morning she stood before it, looked at herself, and
         said</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>:</p>
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l">Mirror, mirror, on the wall,</span>
      <span class="l">Who in this land is fairest of all?</span>
      <span class="l">To this the mirror answered:</span>
      <span class="l">You, my queen, are fairest of all.</span>
      </span>
   
   <p>Then she was satisfied, for she knew that the mirror spoke the truth.</p>
   
   <p>Snow-White grew up and became ever more <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">beautiful</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span>. When she was seven years old she was as <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">beautiful as the light of day</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span>, even
      more beautiful than the queen herself.</p>
   
   <p>One day when the queen asked her mirror:</p>
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l">Mirror, mirror, on the wall,</span>
      <span class="l">Who in this land is fairest of all?</span>
      <span class="l">It answered:</span>
      <span class="l">You, my queen, are fair; it is true.</span>
      <span class="l">But Snow-White is a thousand times fairer than you.</span>
      </span>
   
   <p>The queen took fright and turned <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">yellow and
         green with envy</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>. From that hour on whenever she looked at Snow-White
      her heart turned over inside her body, so great was her hatred for the girl. The envy
      and pride grew ever greater, like a weed in her heart, until she had no peace day
      and
      night.</p>
   
   <p>Then she <span class="hoverable female_action">summoned</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> a
      huntsman and said to him, "Take Snow-White out into the woods. I never want to see
      her
      again. Kill her, and as proof that she is dead bring her lungs and her liver back
      to
      me." </p>
   
   <p>The huntsman <span class="hoverable male_action">obeyed</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span>
      and took Snow-White into the woods. He took out his hunting knife and was about to
      stab
      it into her <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">innocent</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> heart when
      she began to <span class="hoverable female_action">cry</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>, saying, "Oh, dear huntsman, let me live. I will run into the wild woods
      and never come back." </p>
   
   <p>Because she was so <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">beautiful</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span> the
      huntsman took <span class="hoverable male_action">pity</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span>
      on her, and he said, "Run away, you poor child." </p>
   
   <p>He thought, "The wild animals will soon devour you anyway," but still it was as if
      a
      stone had fallen from his heart, for he would not have to kill her. </p>
   
   <p>Just then a young boar came running by. He killed it, cut out its lungs and liver,
      and
      took them back to the queen as proof of Snow-White's death. The cook had to boil them
      with salt, and the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">wicked</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> woman
      <span class="hoverable female_action">ate</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> them,
      supposing that she had eaten Snow-White's lungs and liver. </p>
   
   <p>The <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">poor</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> child was now all alone
      in the great forest, and she was so afraid that she just looked at all the leaves
      on the
      trees and did not know what to do. Then she began to<span class="hoverable female_action">run</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>. She ran over sharp stones and
      through thorns, and wild animals jumped at her, but they did her no harm. She ran
      as far
      as her feet could carry her, and just as evening was about to fall she saw a little
      house and <span class="hoverable female_action">went
         inside</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span> in order to rest. </p>
   
   <p>Inside the house everything was small, but so neat and clean that no one could say
      otherwise. There was a little table with a white tablecloth and seven little plates,
      and
      each plate had a spoon, and there were seven knives and forks and seven mugs as well.
      Against the wall there were seven little beds, all standing in a row and covered with
      snow-white sheets. </p>
   
   <p>Because she was so hungry and thirsty Snow-White ate a few vegetables and a little
      bread
      from each little plate, and from each mug she drank a drop of wine. Afterward, because
      she was so tired, she lay down on a bed, but none of them felt right -- one was too
      long, the other too short -- until finally the seventh one was just right. She remained
      lying in it, entrusted herself to God, and fell asleep. </p>
   
   <p>After dark the masters of the house returned home. They were the seven dwarfs who
      picked
      and dug for ore in the mountains. They lit their seven candles, and as soon as it
      was
      light in their house they saw that someone had been there, for not everything was
      in the
      same order as they had left it. </p>
   
   <p>The first one said, "Who has been sitting in my chair?" </p>
   
   <p>The second one, "Who has been eating from my plate?" </p>
   
   <p>The third one, "Who has been eating my bread?" </p>
   
   <p>The fourth one, "Who has been eating my vegetables?" </p>
   
   <p>The fifth one, "Who has been sticking with my fork?" </p>
   
   <p>The sixth one, "Who has been cutting with my knife?" </p>
   
   <p>The seventh one, "Who has been drinking from my mug?" </p>
   
   <p>Then the first one saw a that there was a little imprint in his bed, and said, "Who
      stepped on my bed?" </p>
   
   <p>The others came running up and shouted, "Someone has been lying in mine as well."
      </p>
   
   <p>But the seventh one, looking at his bed, found Snow-White lying there asleep. The
      seven
      dwarfs all came running up, and they cried out with amazement. They fetched their
      seven
      candles and shone the light on Snow-White. "Oh good heaven! Oh good heaven!" they
      cried.
      "This child is so <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">beautiful</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span>!" </p>
   
   <p>They were so happy, that they did not wake her up, but let her continue to sleep there
      in
      the bed. The seventh dwarf had to sleep with his companions, one hour with each one,
      and
      then the night was done. </p>
   
   <p>The next morning Snow-White woke up, and when she saw the seven dwarfs she was
      <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">frightened</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>. But they were
      friendly and asked, "What is your name?" </p>
   
   <p>"My name is Snow-White," she answered. </p>
   
   <p>"How did you find your way to our house?" the dwarfs asked further. </p>
   
   <p>Then she told them that her stepmother had tried to kill her, that the huntsman had
      spared her life, and that she had run the entire day, finally coming to their house.
      </p>
   
   <p>The dwarfs said, "If you will keep house for us, and cook, make beds, wash, sew, and
      knit, and keep everything clean and orderly, then you can stay with us, and you shall
      have everything that you want." </p>
   
   <p>"Yes," said Snow-White, "with all my heart." </p>
   
   <p>So she kept house for them. Every morning they went into the mountains looking for
      ore
      and gold, and in the evening when they came back home their meal had to be ready.
      During
      the day the girl was alone. </p>
   
   <p>The good dwarfs warned her, saying, "Be careful about your stepmother. She will soon
      know
      that you are here. Do not let anyone in." </p>
   
   <p>Now the queen, believing that she had eaten Snow-White's lungs and liver, could only
      think that she was again the first and the most beautiful woman of all. She stepped
      before her mirror and said: </p>
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l">Mirror, mirror, on the wall,</span>
      <span class="l">Who in this land is fairest of all?</span>
      <span class="l">It answered:</span>
      <span class="l">You, my queen, are fair; it is true.</span>
      <span class="l">But Snow-White, beyond the mountains</span>
      <span class="l">With the seven dwarfs,</span>
      <span class="l">Is still a thousand times fairer than you.</span>
      </span>
   
   <p>This startled the queen, for she knew that the mirror did not lie, and she realized
      that
      the huntsman had deceived her, and that Snow-White was still alive. Then she thought,
      and thought again, how she could kill Snow-White, for as long as long as she was not
      the
      most beautiful woman in the entire land her <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">envy</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> would give her no rest. </p>
   
   <p>At last she thought of something. Coloring her face, <span class="hoverable female_action">she disguised herself as an old peddler
         woman</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>, so that no one would recognize her. In this disguise she <span class="hoverable female_action">went to the house of the seven
         dwarfs</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>. Knocking on the door she called out, "Beautiful wares for sale, for
      sale!" </p>
   
   <p>Snow-White peered out the window and said, "Good day, dear woman, what do you have
      for
      sale?" </p>
   
   <p>"Good wares, beautiful wares," she answered. "Bodice laces in all colors." And she
      took
      out one that was braided from colorful silk. "Would you like this one?" </p>
   
   <p>"I can let that honest woman in," thought Snow-White, then unbolted the door and bought
      the pretty bodice lace. </p>
   
   <p>"Child," said the old woman, "how you look! Come, let me lace you up properly." </p>
   
   <p>The unsuspecting Snow-White <span class="hoverable female_action">stood before her and let her do up the new lace</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>, but
      the old woman <span class="hoverable female_action">pulled so
         quickly and so hard</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> that Snow-White could not breathe. </p>
   
   <p>"You used to be the most beautiful one," said the old woman, and hurried away. </p>
   
   <p>Not long afterward, in the evening time, the seven dwarfs came home. How terrified
      they
      were when they saw their dear Snow-White lying on the ground, not moving at all, as
      though she were dead. They lifted her up, and, seeing that she was too tightly laced,
      they cut the lace in two. Then she began to breathe a little, and little by little
      she
      came back to life. </p>
   
   <p>When the dwarfs heard what had happened they said, "The old peddler woman was no one
      else
      but the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">godless</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> queen. Take
      care and let no one in when we are not with you." </p>
   
   <p>When the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">wicked</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> woman returned
      home she went to her mirror and asked: </p>
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l">Mirror, mirror, on the wall,</span>
      <span class="l">Who in this land is fairest of all?</span>
      <span class="l">The mirror answered once again:</span>
      <span class="l">You, my queen, are fair; it is true.</span>
      <span class="l">But Snow-White, beyond the mountains</span>
      <span class="l">With the seven dwarfs,</span>
      <span class="l">Is still a thousand times fairer than you.</span>
      </span>
   
   <p>When she heard that, all her blood ran to her heart because she knew that Snow-White
      had
      come back to life. </p>
   
   <p>"This time," she said, "I shall think of something that will destroy you." </p>
   
   <p>Then with the art of witchcraft, which she understood, she made a poisoned comb. Then
      she
      disguised herself, taking the form of a different old woman. Thus she went across
      the
      seven mountains to the seven dwarfs, knocked on the door, and called out, "Good wares
      for sale, for sale!" </p>
   
   <p>Snow-White looked out and said, "Go on your way. I am not allowed to let anyone in."
      </p>
   
   <p>"You surely may take a look," said the old woman, pulling out the poisoned comb and
      holding it up. The child liked it so much that she let herself be deceived, and <span class="hoverable female_action">she opened the door.</span><span class="hover">active, female, hesitant</span>
      </p>
   
   <p>After they had agreed on the purchase, the old woman said, "Now let me comb your hair
      properly." </p>
   
   <p>She had barely stuck the comb into Snow-White's hair when the poison took effect,
      and the
      girl <span class="hoverable female_action">fell down
         unconscious</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>. </p>
   
   <p>"You specimen of beauty," said the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">wicked</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> woman, "now you are finished." And she walked away. </p>
   
   <p>Fortunately it was almost evening, and the seven dwarfs came home. When they saw
      Snow-White lying on the ground as if she were dead, they immediately suspected her
      stepmother. They examined her and found the poisoned comb. They had scarcely pulled
      it
      out when Snow-White came to herself again and told them what had happened. Once again
      they warned her to be on guard and not to open the door for anyone. </p>
   
   <p>Back at home the queen stepped before her mirror and said: </p>
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l">Mirror, mirror, on the wall,</span>
      <span class="l">Who in this land is fairest of all?</span>
      <span class="l">The mirror answered:</span>
      <span class="l">You, my queen, are fair; it is true.</span>
      <span class="l">But Snow-White, beyond the mountains</span>
      <span class="l">With the seven dwarfs,</span>
      <span class="l">Is still a thousand times fairer than you.</span>
      </span>
   
   <p>When the queen heard the mirror saying this, she shook and trembled with anger,
      "Snow-White shall die," she shouted, "if it costs me my life!" </p>
   
   <p>Then she went into her most secret room -- no one else was allowed inside -- and she
      <span class="hoverable female_action">made a
         poisoned</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>, poisoned apple. From the outside it was beautiful, white with red
      cheeks, and anyone who saw it would want it. But anyone who might eat a little piece
      of
      it would died. Then, coloring her face, she disguised herself as a peasant woman,
      and
      thus went across the seven mountains to the seven dwarfs. She knocked on the door.
      </p>
   
   <p>Snow-White stuck her head out the window and said, "I am not allowed to let anyone
      in.
      The dwarfs have forbidden me to do so." </p>
   
   <p>"That is all right with me," answered the peasant woman. "I'll easily get rid of my
      apples. Here, I'll give you one of them." </p>
   
   <p>"No," said Snow-White, "I cannot accept anything." </p>
   
   <p>"Are you afraid of poison?" asked the old woman. "Look, I'll cut the apple in two.
      You
      eat the red half, and I shall eat the white half." </p>
   
   <p>Now the apple had been so artfully made that only the red half was poisoned. Snow-White
      longed for the beautiful apple, and when she saw that the peasant woman was eating
      part
      of it she could no longer resist, and she stuck her hand out and took the poisoned
      half.
      She barely had a bite in her mouth when she fell to the ground dead. </p>
   
   <p>The queen looked at her with a <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">gruesome</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> stare, laughed loudly, and said, "White as snow, red as
      blood, black as ebony wood! This time the dwarfs cannot awaken you." </p>
   
   <p>Back at home she asked her mirror: </p>
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l">Mirror, mirror, on the wall,</span>
      <span class="l">Who in this land is fairest of all?</span>
      <span class="l">It finally answered:</span>
      <span class="l">You, my queen, are fairest of all.</span>
      </span>
   
   <p>Then her <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">envious</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> heart was at
      rest, as well as an envious heart can be at rest. </p>
   
   <p>When the dwarfs came home that evening they found Snow-White lying on the ground.
      She was
      not breathing at all. She was dead. They lifted her up and looked for something
      poisonous. They undid her laces. They combed her hair. They washed her with water
      and
      wine. But nothing helped. The dear child was dead, and she remained dead. They laid
      her
      on a bier, and all seven sat next to her and mourned for her and cried for three days.
      They were going to bury her, but she still looked as fresh as a living person, and
      still
      had her beautiful red cheeks. </p>
   
   <p>They said, "We cannot bury her in the black earth," and they had a transparent glass
      coffin made, so she could be seen from all sides. They laid her inside, and with golden
      letters wrote on it her name, and that she was a princess. Then they put the coffin
      outside on a mountain, and one of them always stayed with it and watched over her.
      The
      animals too came and mourned for Snow-white, first an owl, then a raven, and finally
      a
      dove. </p>
   
   <p>Snow-White lay there in the coffin a long, long time, and she did not decay, but looked
      like she was asleep, for she was still as white as snow and as red as blood, and as
      black-haired as ebony wood. </p>
   
   <p>Now it came to pass that a prince entered these woods and happened onto the dwarfs'
      house, where he sought shelter for the night. He saw the coffin on the mountain with
      beautiful Snow-White in it, and he read what was written on it with golden letters.
      </p>
   
   <p>Then he said to the dwarfs, "Let me have the coffin. I will give you anything you
      want
      for it." </p>
   
   <p>But the dwarfs answered, "We will not sell it for all the gold in the world." </p>
   
   <p>Then he said, "Then give it to me, for I cannot live without being able to see
      Snow-White. I will honor her and respect her as my most cherished one." </p>
   
   <p>As he thus spoke, the good dwarfs felt pity for him and gave him the coffin. The prince
      had his servants carry it away on their shoulders. But then it happened that one of
      them
      stumbled on some brush, and this dislodged from Snow-White's throat the piece of
      poisoned apple that she had bitten off. Not long afterward she opened her eyes, lifted
      the lid from her coffin, sat up, and was alive again. </p>
   
   <p>"Good heavens, where am I?" she cried out. </p>
   
   <p>The prince said joyfully, "You are with me." He told her what had happened, and then
      said, "I love you more than anything else in the world. Come with me to my father's
      castle. You shall become my wife." Snow-White loved him, and she went with him. Their
      wedding was planned with great splendor and majesty. </p>
   
   <p>Snow-White's <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">godless</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> stepmother
      was also invited to the feast. After putting on her beautiful clothes she stepped
      before
      her mirror and said: </p>
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l">Mirror, mirror, on the wall,</span>
      <span class="l">Who in this land is fairest of all?</span>
      <span class="l">The mirror answered:</span>
      <span class="l">You, my queen, are fair; it is true.</span>
      <span class="l">But the young queen is a thousand times fairer than you.</span>
      </span>
   
   <p>The <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">wicked</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> woman uttered a
      curse, and she became so frightened, so frightened, that she did not know what to
      do. At
      first she did not want to go to the wedding, but she found no peace. She had to go
      and
      see the young queen. When she arrived she recognized Snow-White, and terrorized, she
      could only stand there without moving. </p>
   
   <p>Then they put a pair of iron shoes into burning coals. They were brought forth with
      tongs
      and placed before her. She was forced to step into the red-hot shoes and <span class="hoverable female_action">dance until she fell down
         dead</span><span class="hover">passive, female, hesitant</span>. </p>
   
   </article>