<article xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <h2>Rumpelstiltskin (1857)</h2>
   
   <p>Once upon a time there was a <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">miller</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span>
      who was <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">poor</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span>, but who had a
      <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">beautiful</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> daughter. Now it
      happened that he <span class="hoverable male_action">got into a
         conversation with the king, and to make an impression on him he said, "I have a
         daughter who can spin straw into gold."</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span></p>
   
   
   <p>The king said to the miller, "That is an art that I really like. If your daughter
      is as
      skillful as you say, then bring her to my castle tomorrow, and <span class="hoverable male_action">I will put her to the test</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>."</p>
   
   
   <p>When the girl <span class="hoverable female_action">was brought
         to him he led her into a room that was entirely filled with straw. Giving her a
         spinning wheel and a reel, he said, "Get to work now. Spin all night, and if by
         morning you have not spun this straw into gold, then you will have to die."</span><span class="hover">passive, female, hesitant</span>
      Then <span class="hoverable male_action">he himself locked the
         room</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>, and she was there all alone.</p>
   
   
   <p>The poor miller's daughter sat there, and for her life she did not know what to do.
      She
      had no idea how to spin straw into gold. <span class="hoverable female_action">She became more and more afraid, and finally began to
         cry</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>.</p>
   
   
   <p>Then suddenly the door opened. A <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">little</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> man stepped inside and said, "Good evening, Mistress Miller,
      why are you crying so?"</p>
   
   
   <p>"Oh," answered the girl, "I am supposed to spin straw into gold, and I do not know
      how to
      do it."</p>
   
   
   <p>The <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">little</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> man said, "What will you
      give me if I spin it for you?"</p>
   
   
   <p>"My necklace," said the girl.</p>
   
   
   <p>The <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">little</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> man took the necklace,
      sat down before the spinning wheel, and whir, whir, whir, three times pulled, and
      the
      spool was full. Then he put another one on, and whir, whir, whir, three times pulled,
      and the second one was full as well. So it went until morning, and then all the straw
      was spun, and all the spools were filled with gold.</p>
   
   
   <p>At sunrise the king came, and when he saw the gold he was surprised and happy, but
      his
      heart became even more <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">greedy</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> for
      gold. He had the miller's daughter taken to another room filled with straw. It was
      even
      larger, and <span class="hoverable male_action">he ordered her to
         spin it in one night</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>, if she valued her life.</p>
   
   
   <p>The girl <span class="hoverable female_action">did not know what
         to do, and she cried</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>. Once again the door opened, and the <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">little </span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> man appeared. He said, "<span class="hoverable male_action">What will you give me if I spin
         the straw into gold for you?"</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span></p>
   
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">"The ring from my finger,"
         answered the girl</span><span class="hover">active, female, hesitant</span>.</p>
   
   
   <p>The <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">little</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> man <span class="hoverable male_action">took the ring, and began once
         again to whir with the spinning wheel. By morning he had spun all the straw into
         glistening gold</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>. The king was happy beyond measure when he saw it, but he
      still did not have his fill of gold. He had the miller's daughter taken to a still
      larger room filled with straw, and said, "Tonight you must spin this too. If you succeed
      you shall become my wife." He thought, "Even if she is only a miller's daughter, I
      will
      not find a richer wife in all the world."</p>
   
   
   <p>When the girl was alone the <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">little</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span>
      man returned for a third time. He said, "What will you give me if I spin the straw
      this
      time?"</p>
   
   
   <p>"I have nothing more that I could give you," answered the girl.</p>
   
   
   <p>"Then promise me, after you are queen, your first child."</p>
   
   
   <p>"Who knows what will happen," thought the miller's daughter, and <span class="hoverable female_action">not knowing what else to do, she promised the
         <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">little man</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> what he
         demanded</span><span class="hover">active, female, hesitant</span>. In return the <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">little
         man</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> once again spun the straw into gold.</p>
   
   
   <p>When in the morning the king came and found everything just as he desired, he married
      her, and the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">beautiful</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span>
      <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">miller's daughter</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span>
      <span class="hoverable female_action">became
         queen</span><span class="hover">passive, female, neutral</span>.</p>
   
   
   <p>A year later she brought a <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">beautiful
         child</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> to the world. She thought no more about the <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">little man</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span>, but suddenly he appeared in
      her room and said, "Now give me that which you promised."</p>
   
   
   <p>The queen took fright and offered the little man all the wealth of the kingdom if
      he
      would let her keep the child, but the <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">little
         man</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> said, "No. Something living is dearer to me than all the treasures
      of the world."</p>
   
   
   <p>Then the queen began lamenting and crying so much that the <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">little man</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> took pity on her and said, "I will give you
      three days' time. If by then you know my name, then you shall keep your child."</p>
   
   
   <p>The queen spent the entire night thinking of all the names she had ever heard. Then
      <span class="hoverable female_action">she sent a messenger
         into the country to inquire far and wide what other names there were</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>. When
      the <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">little man</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> returned the next
      day she began with Kaspar, Melchior, Balzer, and said in order all the names she knew.
      After each one the <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">little man</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span>
      said, "That is not my name."</p>
   
   
   <p>The second day <span class="hoverable female_action">she sent
         inquiries into the neighborhood as to what names people had</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>. She recited
      the most unusual and most curious names to the <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">little man</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span>: "Is your name perhaps Beastrib? Or Muttoncalf? Or
      Legstring?"</p>
   
   
   <p>But he always answered, "That is not my name."</p>
   
   
   <p>On the third day the messenger <span class="hoverable male_action">returned and said, "I have not been able to find a single new
         name, but when I was approaching a high mountain in the corner of the woods, there
         where the fox and the hare say good-night, I saw a little house</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span>. A fire was
      burning in front of the house, and an altogether <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">comical</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span>
      <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">little man</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> was jumping around the
      fire, hopping on one leg and calling out:</p>
   
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l"><span class="hoverable male_action">Today I'll bake; tomorrow
            I'll brew</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>,</span>
      <span class="l"><span class="hoverable male_action">Then I'll fetch the queen's
            new child</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>,</span>
      <span class="l">It is good that no one knows,</span>
      <span class="l">Rumpelstiltskin is my name.</span>
      </span>
   
   <p>You can imagine how happy the queen was when she heard that name. Soon afterward the
      <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">little</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> man came in and asked,
      "Now, Madame Queen, what is my name?"</p>
   
   
   <p>She first asked, "Is your name Kunz?"</p>
   
   
   <p>"No."</p>
   
   
   <p>"Is your name Heinz?"</p>
   
   
   <p>"No."</p>
   
   
   <p>"Is your name perhaps Rumpelstiltskin?"</p>
   
   
   <p>"The devil told you that! The devil <span class="hoverable female_action">told you that</span><span class="hover">passive, female, eager</span>!" shouted the <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">little man</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span>, and with anger <span class="hoverable male_action">he stomped his right foot so hard into the ground
         that he fell in up to his waist. Then with both hands he took hold of his left foot
         and ripped himself up the middle in two</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>.</p>
   
   </article>