<article xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <h2>The Robber Bridegroom (1857)</h2>
   
   <p>Once upon a time there was a miller who had a <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">beautiful</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> daughter. When she came of age he wished that she was
      provided for and well married. He thought, "If a <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">respectable suitor</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span> comes and asks for her hand in
      marriage, <span class="hoverable male_action">I will give her to
         him."</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>Not long afterward a suitor came who <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">appeared
         to be very rich</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span>, and because the miller could find no fault with him,
      <span class="hoverable male_action">he promised his daughter
         to him.</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p> The girl, however, did not like him as much as a bride should like her bridegroom.
      <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">She did not trust him, and whenever she
         saw him or thought about him, she felt within her heart a sense of
         horror.</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span>
      </p>
   
   <p>One time he said to her, "You are engaged to marry me, but you have never once paid
      me a
      visit."</p>
   
   <p>The girl replied, "I don't know where your house is."</p>
   
   <p>Then the bridegroom said, "My house is out in the dark woods."</p>
   
   <p>
      <span class="hoverable female_action">Looking for an excuse,
         she said that she would not be able to find the way there.</span><span class="hover">passive, female, hesitant</span>
      </p>
   
   <p>The bridegroom said, "Next Sunday you must come out to me. I have already invited
      guests.
      <span class="hoverable male_action">I will make a trail of
         ashes, so that you can find your way through the woods."</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>When Sunday came, and it was time for the girl to start on her way, she became
      <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">frightened</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span>, although she
      herself did not know exactly why. In order to mark the path, <span class="hoverable female_action">she filled both her pockets full of peas and
         lentils.</span><span class="hover">active, female, hesitant</span> At the entrance of the forest there was a trail of ashes, which
      <span class="hoverable female_action">she followed, but at
         every step she threw a couple of peas to the ground, to the right and to the left.
         She walked almost the whole day until she came to the middle of the woods, where it
         was the darkest, and there stood a solitary house. She did not like it, because it
         looked so dark and sinister. She went inside, but no one was there.</span><span class="hover">active, female, hesitant</span> It was
      totally quiet.</p>
   
   <p>Suddenly a voice called out:</p>
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l">Turn back, turn back, you <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">young
            bride.</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span></span>
      <span class="l">You are in a <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">murderer's</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span>
         house.</span>
      </span>
   
   <p>The girl looked up and saw that the voice came from a bird, which was hanging in a
      cage
      on the wall. It cried out again:</p>
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l">Turn back, turn back, you <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">young</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> bride.</span>
      <span class="l"> You are in a <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">murderer's</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span>
         house. </span>
      </span>
   
   <p>Then the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">beautiful</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> bride went
      from one room to another, <span class="hoverable female_action">walking through the whole house, but it was entirely empty, and not a human soul
         was to be found. Finally she came to the cellar.</span><span class="hover">active, female, hesitant</span> A <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">very old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman was sitting there shaking
      her head.</p>
   
   <p>"Could you tell me," said the girl, "if my bridegroom lives here?"</p>
   
   <p>"Oh, you poor child," replied the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman, "where did you come from? You are in a <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">murderer's</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> den. You think you are a bride
      soon to be married, but it is <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">death</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> that you will be marrying. Look, they made me put a large kettle
      of water on the fire. When they have captured you, they will chop you to pieces without
      mercy, cook you, and eat you, for they are <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">cannibals</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span>. If I do not show you compassion and save you, you are
      doomed."</p>
   
   <p>With this the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman led her
      behind a large barrel where she could not be seen.</p>
   
   <p>"Be quiet as a mouse." she said. "Do not make a sound or move, or all will be over
      with
      you. <span class="hoverable female_action">Tonight when the
         robbers are asleep we will escape. I have long waited for an
         opportunity."</span><span class="hover">passive, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>This had scarcely happened when the <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">godless
         band</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> came home. <span class="hoverable male_action">They were dragging with them another maiden.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> They were
      drunk and paid no attention to her screams and sobs.</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_action">They gave her wine to
         drink,</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> three glasses full, one glass of white, one glass of red, and one
      glass of yellow, which caused her heart to break. <span class="hoverable male_action">Then they ripped off her fine clothes, laid her on a table,
         chopped her beautiful body in pieces and sprinkled salt on it.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> The
      <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">poor</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> bride behind the
      barrel trembled and shook, for she saw well what fate the robbers had planned for
      her.</p>
   
   <p>One of them noticed a gold ring on the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">murdered</span><span class="hover">negative, female</span> girl's little finger. Because it did not come off easily,
      <span class="hoverable male_action">he took an ax and chopped
         the finger off,</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> but it flew into the air and over the barrel, falling right
      into the bride's lap. The robber took a light and looked for it, but could not find
      it.</p>
   
   <p>Then another one said, "Did you look behind the large barrel?"</p>
   
   <p>But the <span class="hoverable female_action"><span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman cried out, "Come and eat.
         You can continue looking in the morning. That finger won't run away from
         you."</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>Then the robbers said, "The <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span>
      woman is right." They gave up their search and sat down to eat. <span class="hoverable female_action">The <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman poured a sleeping-potion into their wine,</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> so
      that they soon lay down in the cellar and fell asleep, snoring.</p>
   
   <p>
      <span class="hoverable female_action">When the bride heard them
         snoring she came out from behind the barrel, and had to step over the sleepers, for
         they lay all in rows on the ground. She was afraid that she might awaken one of
         them, but God helped her, and she got through safely.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>
      </p>
   
   <p>The <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman went upstairs with
      her, opened the door, and <span class="hoverable female_action">they hurried out of the murderer's den as fast as they could.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>The wind had blown away the trail of ashes, but the peas and lentils had sprouted
      and
      grown up, and showed them the way in the moonlight. <span class="hoverable female_action">They walked all night, arriving at the mill the
         next morning. Then the girl told her father everything, just as it had
         happened.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>When the wedding day came, <span class="hoverable male_action">the
         bridegroom appeared.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> The miller had invited all his relatives and
      acquaintances. As they sat at the table, each one was asked to tell something. <span class="hoverable female_action">The bride sat still and said
         nothing.</span><span class="hover">passive, female, hesitant</span></p>
   
   <p>Then the bridegroom said to the bride, "Come, sweetheart, don't you know anything?
      Tell
      us something, like the others have done."</p>
   
   <p>She answered:</p>
   
   <p>Then I will tell about a dream. I was walking alone through the woods, when finally
      I
      came to a house. Inside there was not a single human soul, but on the wall there was
      a
      bird in a cage. It cried out:</p>
   
   <p>Turn back, turn back, you <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">young</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span>
      bride.</p>
   
   <p>You are in a <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">murderer's</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> house.</p>
   
   <p>Then it cried out the same thing again. Darling, it was only a dream. Then I went
      through
      all the rooms. They were all empty, and there was something so eerie in there. Finally
      I
      went down into the cellar, and there sat a <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">very old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman, shaking her head. I asked her, "Does my bridegroom
      live in this house?"</p>
   
   <p>She answered, "Alas poor child, you have gotten into a <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">murderer's den. Your bridegroom does live here, but he intends to chop
         you to pieces and kill you, and then he intends to cook you and eat
         you."</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span></p>
   
   <p>Darling, it was only a dream. After that the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman <span class="hoverable female_action">hid me behind a large barrel.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> I had scarcely hidden myself there when the
      robbers came home, <span class="hoverable male_action">dragging a
         girl with them. They gave her three kinds of wine to drink:</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> white, red, and
      yellow, which caused her heart to stop beating. Darling, it was only a dream. <span class="hoverable male_action">After that they took off her fine
         clothes, and chopped her <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">beautiful
            body</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span> to pieces on a table, then sprinkled salt on it.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>
      Darling, it was only a dream. Then one of the robbers saw that there was still a ring
      on
      her ring finger. Because it was hard to get the ring off, <span class="hoverable male_action">he took an ax and chopped off the finger.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>
      The finger flew through the air behind the large barrel, and fell into my lap. And
      here
      is the finger with the ring.</p>
   
   <p>
      <span class="hoverable female_action">With these words she pulled
         out the finger and showed it to everyone who was there.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>
      </p>
   
   <p>The robber, who had during this story become as <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">white as chalk,</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span>
      <span class="hoverable male_action">jumped up and tried to
         escape,</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> but the guests held him fast, and turned him over to the courts.
      <span class="hoverable female_action">Then he and his whole
         band were executed for their shameful deeds.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   </article>