<article xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <h2>The Singing Bone (1819)</h2>
   
   <p>Once upon a time in a certain country there was great concern about a wild boar that
      was
      destroying the peasants' fields, killing the cattle, and ripping people apart with
      its
      tusks. The king <span class="hoverable male_action"> promised a
         large reward to anyone who could free the land from this plague</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>, but the
      beast was so large and strong that no one dared to go near the woods where it lived.
      Finally the king <span class="hoverable male_action">proclaimed
         that whoever could capture or kill the wild boar should have his only daughter in
         marriage</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>.</p>
   
   
   <p>Now in this country there lived two brothers, <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">sons of a poor man</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span>. They <span class="hoverable male_action">declared that they dared to attempt the task</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>. The
      <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">older</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> one, who was <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">crafty</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> and <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">shrewd</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span>, did so out of pride. The <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">younger</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> one, who was <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">innocent</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span> and <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">simple</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span>, did so because of his <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">kind heart</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span>.</p>
   
   
   <p>The king said, "In order to be more sure of finding the beast, you should enter the
      woods
      from opposite sides."</p>
   
   
   <p>Thus the <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">older one</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span>
      <span class="hoverable male_action">entered the woods from the
         west</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span>, and the <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">younger
         one</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> from the east.</p>
   
   
   <p>After the <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">younger one</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> had walked a
      little while, a <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">little dwarf</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span>
      <span class="hoverable male_action">stepped up to him</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span>.
      He held a black spear in his hand and said, "<span class="hoverable male_action">I am giving you this spear because your heart is <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">innocent</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span> and <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">good</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span>.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> With it you can
      confidently attack the wild boar. It will do you no harm."</p>
   
   
   <p>He <span class="hoverable male_action">thanked the dwarf, put the
         spear on his shoulder, and walked on <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">fearlessly</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span>.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   
   <p>Before long he saw the beast. It attacked him, but <span class="hoverable male_action">he held the spear toward it, and in its blind fury it ran into
         the spear with such force that its heart was slashed in two</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span>.</p>
   
   
   <p>Then <span class="hoverable male_action">he put the monster on his
         back and turned towards home, intending to take it to the king</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>.</p>
   
   
   <p>Emerging from the other side of the woods, he <span class="hoverable male_action">came to a house where people were making merry drinking wine
         and dancing</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span>. His <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">older</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> brother was there too. Thinking that the boar would not run away
      from him any time soon, he <span class="hoverable male_action">had decided to drink himself some real courage</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span>. When he saw his younger
      brother coming out of the woods with his booty, his <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">envious</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> and <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">evil</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> heart gave him no peace.</p>
   
   
   <p>He <span class="hoverable male_action">called out to him</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>,
      "Come in, <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">dear brother</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span>. Rest and
      refresh yourself with a beaker of wine."</p>
   
   
   <p>The <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">younger</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> brother, suspecting no
      evil, <span class="hoverable male_action">went in and told him
         about the <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">good</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span> dwarf who had
         given him the spear with which he had killed the boar</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>.</p>
   
   
   <p>The <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">older</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> brother <span class="hoverable male_action">kept him there until
         evening</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>, and then <span class="hoverable male_action">they set forth together</span><span class="hover">active, male, neutral</span>. After dark they came to a
      bridge over a brook, and the <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">older</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span>
      brother <span class="hoverable male_action">=let the <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">younger one</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> go first</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span>. When
      the <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">younger</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> brother reached the
      middle above the water, the <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">older</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span>
      one <span class="hoverable male_action">gave him such a blow from
         behind that <span class="hoverable male_action">he fell
            down dead</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span></span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>.</p>
   
   
   <p>He <span class="hoverable male_action">buried him beneath the
         bridge, took the boar, and delivered it to the king, pretending that he had killed
         it</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>. With this he <span class="hoverable male_action">received the king's daughter in marriage</span><span class="hover">passive, male, eager</span>.</p>
   
   
   <p>When his <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">younger</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span> brother did not
      return he said, "The boar must have ripped him apart," and every one believed it.</p>
   
   
   <p>But as nothing remains hidden from God, this black deed was also to come to light.</p>
   
   
   <p>After many long years a <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">shepherd</span><span class="hover">neutral, male</span>
      <span class="hoverable male_action"> was driving his herd
         across the bridge and saw a little snow-white bone lying in the sand below</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span>.
      Thinking that it would make a good mouthpiece, he <span class="hoverable male_action">climbed down, picked it up, and then carved out of it a
         mouthpiece for his horn</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>. When he blew into it for the first time, to his
      great astonishment the bone began to sing by itself:</p>
   
   <span class="lg">
      <span class="l">Oh, my <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">dear shepherd</span><span class="hover">positive, male</span>,</span>
      <span class="l">You are blowing on my little bone.</span>
      <span class="l">My brother <span class="hoverable male_action">killed
            me</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>,</span>
      <span class="l">And <span class="hoverable male_action">buried me beneath the
            bridge</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>,</span>
      <span class="l">To get the wild boor</span>
      <span class="l">For the daughter of the king.</span>
      </span>
   
   
   <p>"What a wonderful horn," said the shepherd. "It sings by itself. I must take it to
      the
      king."</p>
   
   
   <p>When he brought it before the king, the horn again began to sing its little song.
      The
      king understood it well, and <span class="hoverable male_action">had the earth beneath the bridge dug up</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>. Then the whole skeleton of the
      murdered man came to light.</p>
   
   
   <p>The <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">wicked</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> brother could not deny
      the deed. He <span class="hoverable male_action">was sewn into
         a sack and drowned alive</span><span class="hover">passive, male, hesitant</span>. The <span class="hoverable male_action">murdered</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span> man's bones <span class="hoverable male_action">were laid to rest in a beautiful grave in the
         churchyard</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span>.</p>
   
   </article>