<article xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <h2>The Robber Bridegroom</h2>
   
   <p>A princess had been promised in marriage to a prince. He asked her a number of times
      to
      visit him in his castle, <span class="hoverable female_action">but she always declined,</span><span class="hover">passive, female, hesitant</span> because the way there led through a great forest,
      and she was afraid of getting lost.</p>
   
   <p>If that was her only concern, said the prince, then <span class="hoverable male_action">he would help her by tying a ribbon to every tree, so that she
         could not lose her way.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">For a while she attempted
         to further postpone her visit,</span><span class="hover">passive, female, hesitant</span> as though she were secretly afraid, but
      finally she ran out of excuses, and one day she had to go there. <span class="hoverable female_action">She walked through deep, deep woods from
         morning until evening,</span><span class="hover">active, female, hesitant</span> coming at last to a large house. Everything was
      quiet inside. There was only an <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman there, sitting just outside the door.</p>
   
   <p>"Could you tell me if the prince, my bridegroom, lives here?"</p>
   
   <p>"My child," answered the woman, "it is a good thing that you arrived just now when
      the
      prince is not at home. I had to fill a large kettle with water, for they intend to
      kill
      you, cook you, and then eat you."</p>
   
   <p>Just then the prince and his band came home from their raid. However, because the
      <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman had sympathy with
      the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">bride's youth and beauty,</span><span class="hover">positive, female</span>
      she said to her, before anyone noticed her, <span class="hoverable female_action">"Quick, go down into the cellar and hide yourself</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span>
      behind the large barrel!"</p>
   
   <p>The princess had hardly slipped behind the barrel when the band of robbers came into
      the
      cellar, bringing with them an <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman= <span class="hoverable male_action">whom they had captured.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> From her corner the princess could see everything
      that was happening without herself being noticed, and she saw that the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman was her grandmother. The
      robbers took the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> grandmother
      and <span class="hoverable male_action">murdered her.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span>
      Then <span class="hoverable male_action">they took all the rings
         off her fingers,</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> one after the other. However, the ring from her ring
      finger would not come off, <span class="hoverable male_action">so
         one of them picked up an ax and chopped off the finger.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> The finger flew
      behind the barrel and fell right into the princess's lap.</p>
   
   <p>After the robbers had looked around for the finger for a long time, one of them said,
      "Did you look behind the large barrel?"</p>
   
   <p>"It would be better to wait until it's light to continue looking," said another. "We'll
      look tomorrow morning, and then we'll soon find the ring."</p>
   
   <p>After this <span class="hoverable male_action">the band lay down
         to sleep there in the same cellar.</span><span class="hover">passive, male, neutral</span> As soon as they were asleep and snoring,
      <span class="hoverable female_action">the bride came out from
         behind the barrel.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> They were all lying there in rows, and she would have to
      walk over all the sleeping men to reach the door. She carefully put her foot down
      between them, fearing always that she might awaken one of them, but fortunately that
      did
      not happen. After reaching the door she was once again in the woods, and because the
      moon shone brightly, <span class="hoverable female_action">she
         followed the ribbons until she arrived back home.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">She told her father
         everything that had happened to her,</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> and <span class="hoverable male_action">he immediately ordered an entire regiment to
         surround his castle,</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> as soon as the bridegroom arrived there. That
      happened. The <span class="hoverable male_action">bridegroom came
         that very day and immediately asked why she hadn't come to visit him
         yesterday</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> as she had promised.</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable male_action">She said, "I had a very bad
         dream.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> I dreamed that I went to a house. An <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman was sitting just outside the door, and she
      said to me, 'It is good that you came when no one is at home, for I have to tell you,
      that I had to fill a large kettle with water, and they intend to kill you, and boil
      you,
      and then eat you.' Even as she spoke, the robbers came home, and before anyone noticed
      me, the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman said, <span class="hoverable female_action">'Quick, go down into the cellar
         and hide yourself behind the large barrel.'</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span> I was hardly there when <span class="hoverable male_action">the robbers came down the cellar
         stairs. They were dragging</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> an <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span> woman with them, <span class="hoverable male_action">whom they took hold of and murdered. After they had
         murdered</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> the <span class="hoverable female_descriptor">old</span><span class="hover">neutral, female</span>
      woman, <span class="hoverable male_action">they began to pull all
         the rings off her fingers,</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> one after the other, but the ring on her ring
      finger wouldn't come off, so one of them <span class="hoverable male_action">picked up an ax and chopped away at it until it</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> flew
      into the air, and it came down behind the barrel right into my lap, and here I have
      the
      finger!"</p>
   
   <p><span class="hoverable female_action">With these words she suddenly
         pulled the finger from her pocket.</span><span class="hover">active, female, eager</span></p>
   
   <p>When the bridegroom saw and heard these things <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">he turned as white as chalk with fear.</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span>
      <span class="hoverable male_action">He tried to flee by jumping
         out the window,</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span> but the <span class="hoverable male_action">sentries were standing below. They captured him and his entire
         band, and all of them were executed as a reward for their <span class="hoverable male_descriptor">wicked</span><span class="hover">negative, male</span> deeds.</span><span class="hover">active, male, eager</span></p>
   
   </article>