<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang = "en">
    <head>
        <title>grimm-conclusion</title>
        <link rel="Stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/grimm_css.css" />
    </head>
    <body class="conclusion">
        <main>
            <!--#include virtual="inc/title_navbar.xhtml" -->
            <div class="inside">
                <h1 class="textcenter">Conclusion</h1>

                <p><strong>Are the descriptors for women generally more positive or negative
                        compared to men? Are women or men given a more active role?</strong></p>
                <p>While we could blanketedly state that there were more positive descriptors than
                    men, it would be more accurate to state that the tales were more likely to
                    describe women are definitively 'good' or 'bad' rather than neutral overall. If
                    we ignore the neutral descriptors, women are described more positively compared
                    to men across both editions, though their numbers decrease while the male
                    equivalent increases (men become more positively described in the later editions
                    whereas women are more negatively described). For the actions, there does not
                    appear to be a clear connection between agenecy and passivity in the early
                    editions. Tales with primarily male actions had just as many, if more, cases of
                    passivity as those with primarily female-driven actions. In the later editions,
                    active agency in male actions increased and there is a notable increase in
                    passivity in stories with female actions. However, even if the actions were
                    marked 'passive' for either gender, most of the actions were eagerly done. As
                    for this collection of fairy tales, we can see some shift in agency refelcted in
                    gendered actions but not as significantly as we had hypothesized. The most
                    notable increase is in the number of male actions that were created in the later
                    editions compared to their earlier counterparts. </p>


                <p><strong>How does the association between the fairy tales and marketing towards
                        children lead to a shift in content within the stories, especially in
                        regards to gender portrayal?</strong></p>
                <p>The steady increase in positivity of gendered descriptors aligns with a younger
                    audience, and the shift away from neutral descriptors of characters could be a
                    means of making character distinctions easier for children to comprehend. That
                    is to say, the witch is clearly bad and the princess is clearly good. The
                    increase in agency noted earlier may also represent the change in the purpose of
                    these stories. Whereas the earlier editions are regarded as cautionary tales, or
                    fables, and therefore are less interested in complex character building, the
                    later editions of fairy tales we are more familiar with are read as more
                    inspirational or whimsical stories a la Disney. With an increased agency in male
                    actions, and a subsequent increase in passivity in female actions, we can see a
                    clearer line being drawn in the roles of male versus female characters; rather
                    than a little boy just being a little boy (like in earlier editions) with marked
                    passivity, he becomes an active main character or traditional hero in the later
                    editions. If children were meant to see themselves relfected in these tales, it
                    would make sense for there to be a push for male characters to play more active
                    roles in the narrative of the story while the female characters are often left
                    to wait for their knight in shining armor (or marriage). We were unable to do
                    background research on the historical marketing changes of the fairy tales, but
                    it would be beneficial to see if the tales were first geared towards boys or
                    girls.</p>


                <p><strong>Final Thoughts</strong></p>
                <p>Coming into this project, most of us assumed there would be a clear-cut
                    distiction in the way the binary genders were described in these tales. With our
                    previous historical knowledge, we agreed that it would be likely that women were
                    described more negative and passive overall. After conducting our research, it
                    is clear that such a conclusion may rely too heavily on preconceived ideas about
                    the gender experience in literature. Many of these tales, as mentioned prior,
                    were cautionary tales that did not rely too heavily on traditional gender norms.
                    Rather than say the fairy tales became more gendered in later editions, it would
                    be more suffice to say that the language of the tales become more strong and
                    distinctive over time.</p>
                <p><strong>Going Forward</strong></p>
                <p>Four months is a short period of time to mark and analyze the entirety of the
                    Grimm's corpus. With more time and resources, we would have liked to tackle the
                    entire collection of works provided on the Ashliman website to mitigate the
                    selection bias our current data has. It would also be beneficial, as mentioned
                    prior, to conduct some research on the historical marketing of the tales to
                    further contextualzie our second question. For the purposes of comparison, this
                    project could be expanded to conduct the same markup analysis on another
                    collection of fairy tales, or another translation of the Grimm's, that show
                    similar editioral changes. </p>

            </div>
        </main>
        <!--#include virtual="inc/footer.xhtml" -->
    </body>
</html>
