<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>grimm-methods</title>
        <link rel="Stylesheet" type="text/css" href="Homepage_CSS.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div class="topnav navOffset">
            <div class="webpageHeader">
                <h1>Grimm's Fairytales</h1>
            </div>
            <a href="Homepage_HTML.xhtml">About</a>
            <a class="active" href="methodology.xhtml">Our Research</a>
            <a href="texts.xhtml">Texts</a>
            <a href="analysis.xhtml">Analysis</a>
            <a href="conclusion.xhtml">Conclusion</a>
        </div>
        <div class="inside">
            <h1 class="textcenter">Corpus</h1>
            <h2>Our Corpus</h2>
            <p>Since there are many translations and editions of the Grimm's Fairytales, we have
                decided to use one source for our research. The collection, included below, was
                compiled by D. L. Ashliman, who was a professor at The University of Pittsburgh. His
                site allows us to view English translations of many of the works, in addition to
                offering a comparison between the 1812 and 1857 editions. <a
                    href="https://sites.pitt.edu/~dash/grimmtales.html"
                        ><strong>https://sites.pitt.edu/~dash/grimmtales.html</strong></a></p>
            <h2>Our Stories</h2>
            <p>Considering the scope and timeline of this project, we have decided to limit our
                research to a subset of the stories. Included are the stories we are
                investigating:</p>
            <div class="container flexCenter ignoreBullets">
                <ul class="one">
                    <li>Little Red Riding Hood</li>
                    <li>Rumplestiltskin</li>
                    <li>The Robber Bridegroom</li>
                    <li>Frau Holle</li>
                </ul>
                <ul class="one">
                    <li>Rapunzel</li>
                    <li>Hansel and Gretel</li>
                    <li>Sleeping Beauty</li>
                    <li>Snow White</li>
                </ul>
                <ul class="one">
                    <li>The Singing Bone</li>
                    <li>Girl Without Hands</li>
                    <li>Hans-my-hedgehog</li>
                    <li>Iron Heinrich</li>
                </ul>
            </div>
        </div>
        <div class="inside">
            <h1 class="textcenter">About the Grimms</h1>
            <p>Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm, popularly known as the Brothers Grimm, were academics and
                librarians. These two brothers compiled different fairytales into what we now know
                as the Grimm's Fairytales. However, the first collection of 53 stories wasn't
                published during their lifetime. It wouldn't be until 1812, when a different
                collections of stories was published by the brothers. Different versions of Kinder-
                und Hausmärchen, whcih translates to Children's and Household Tales, would be
                translated all the way up to 1857. The 1857, or 7th edition, is the final version
                and is what serves as the basis for many of the versions translated and published
                aftet the brothers' death.</p>
        </div>
        <div class="inside">
            <h1 class="textcenter">The Methodology</h1>
            <h2>Markup Methodology</h2>
            <p>For our project, we’re interested in seeing how the relationship between gender and
                action is portrayed in Grimm’s fairytales and if this changes over time. To do this
                we looked at both well-known and lesser known tales with two versions of each tale
                from different years. The stories we chose were: Little Red Riding Hood,
                Rumplestiltskin, The Robber Bridegroom, Frau Holle, Rapunzel, Hansel and Grettle,
                Sleeping Beauty, Snow White, The Singing Bone, Girl Without Hands, Hans-my-hedgehog,
                and Frog King. We used a collection compiled by a previous Pitt professor, D. L.
                Ashliman. This collection contains translations from the original German to English
                with versions from different parts of the 1800s. Each tale’s version was marked up
                according to our schema. This schema consisted of three elements: descriptor,
                action, and empty. Descriptor was further broken down into the attributes of type
                and gender. Type had the values of positive, neutral, and negative. We used type and
                its values as a way to see how genders were portrayed not only by their actions but
                by their description. This was done so that we could compare the language used to
                describe female characters versus male characters to see what this told us about how
                the Grimm’s fairytales portrayed gender. Additionally, we looked at the actions of
                these characters, ascribing the attributes: agency, gender, and willingness. Agency
                had a value of either active or passive and willingness had values eager, neutral,
                and hesitant. These action attributes and their values are the meat of our argument.
                They allow us to see how gender in the tales were actually allowed to act. Our empty
                element was for a happy ending, which all of our stories had. We chose to include
                the happy ending element because we thought that it would be interesting to show
                whether a story had a happy ending and women were portrayed in a more positive light
                or if the story did not have a happy ending and the women were portrayed in a more
                negative light, and vice versa with men.</p>
        </div>
        <div class="inside">
            <h1 class="textcenter">Bibliography</h1>
            <h2>Our Project</h2>
            <ul>
                <li><a href="https://github.com/scanney/Grimm-Fairytales" class="externalLink">Our
                        GitHub repository.</a></li>
            </ul>
            <h2>Story Sources</h2>
            <ul>
                <li>Compilation and translation of all versions of the tales were provided by <a
                        href="https://sites.pitt.edu/~dash/grimmtales.html" class="externalLink">D.L
                        Ashliman</a>. Tales were selected from the collection at the discretion of
                    the developers.</li>
            </ul>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
